Title: Dalzel
URL: https://howlscastle.fandom.com//wiki/Dalzel
--------------------------------------------------
Dalzel was a djinn who was the younger brother of Hasruel. His main deed was kidnapping princesses from countries across the world, since no female djinn would have him.

Contents

1 Biography

1.1 Early life
1.2 Kidnapping princesses


2 Physical appearance
3 Personality
4 References


Biography[]
Early life[]
Sometime prior to the start of the novel, Dalzel's mother Dazrah was ravished by an evil djinn. Following Dalzel's birth, he came out of his mother's womb hideously deformed solely on account of the fact that the respective natures of both his father and mother - the former being evil, and the latter being good - were incompatible, and, out of disgust, his mother gave him to Hasruel to look after.[1] Therefore, Hasruel pampered and spoiled Dalzel as he grew up, until, according to his account, when the younger djinn came of age, his more sinister nature became more apparent, to the extent that he enslaved Hasruel by stealing his life and forcing him to work for him, which was partly Hasruel's fault on account of the fact that he had naively shown Dalzel the location of his life, not thinking that he would use it.

Kidnapping princesses[]
Thus, following his brother's enslavement, Dalzel turned his attention to abducting as many princesses as he could, since he believed that it was his right to get married,[2] and because only women of extremely high rank were those he believed to be worthy of him. Therefore, he ordered Hasruel to steal Howl's Castle so that it could be used as a base, since he knew that, in contrast to djinn, the human princesses he would abduct would not be able to levitate.[3] Following this, Dalzel amassed a harem of around thirty princesses from different countries around the world.[4]
However, making sure to keep the princesses in check would be another matter entirely, since, ironically for such a spoiled djinn, Dalzel found four-year-old Princess Valeria's temper tantrums difficult to deal with and demanded that Hasruel put a sleeping spell on her.[5] Sophie and Abdullah later infiltrated the castle, and encountered the princesses, reuniting Abdullah with Flower-in-the-Night, who had also been abducted. Therefore, they hatched a plan to rescue Hasruel's life and free him from Dalzel's enslavement. Using Valeria as a distraction, they were able to liberate the elder djinn, and, once he asked them what he could do repay them, much to Dalzel's utter chagrin, Abdullah ordered him to send the younger djinn into exile. However, there was a caveat: the two nieces, who were attracted to the djinn in any case, were to accompany Dalzel into exile, much to the younger djinn's delight.

Physical appearance[]
Dalzel is described by Jones thusly:
[...]Abdullah saw with surprise that Dalzel was beautiful. Apart from his fungoid ears and taloned feet, he could have been a tall, angelic man. Golden curls grew on his head and his wings, although small and stunted-looking, were golden too. His very red mouth spread into a sweet smile. Altogether, he had an unearthly beauty that matched the strange cloud kingdom where he lived.[6]

Personality[]
Dalzel is highly spoiled and prone to temper tantrums. He appears to bear a sense of entitlement in his personality, since, not only does he force his brother to capture princesses on his behalf, he feels that only princesses, or otherwise human women of incredibly high rank, are worthy of him, on account of his status as a djinn, which Hasruel believes to have been inherited from Dazrah.[7] Given that he has four-year-old Princess Valeria and the child princess of Tsapfan among his harem, he appears not to care whether or not any potential brides are underage.[8] However, he appears to be flexible, as evidenced when he decides that he prefers the fat nieces who were to marry Abdullah over any princess, and curses himself for not endeavouring to abduct obese women instead.[9]

References[]

↑ Castle in the Air p171-2

↑ Castle in the Air p267

↑ Castle in the Air p173

↑ Castle in the Air p174

↑ Castle in the Air p223

↑ Castle in the Air p225

↑ Castle in the Air p172

↑ Castle in the Air p222

↑ Castle in the Air p269