Title: House of Many ways
URL: https://howlscastle.fandom.com//wiki/House_of_Many_ways
--------------------------------------------------
House of Many Ways (Wizard's Castle #3)

Author
 Diana Wynne Jones 


Language
English







ebook Information

Published on
May 22, 2009


Publisher
Greenwillow Books; Reprint edition



Print Publication Information

Type:
Paperback


Pages:
432


Size:
5 x 8 inches


Published on
May 26, 2009


Publisher
Greenwillow Books; Reprint edition



Audiobook Details






Narrator
Jenny Sterlin


Released:
February 10, 2009


Publisher:
Recorded Books


Length
7 hrs 57 min



POV Information


Gender
Char Name





Series order


Previous
Next




Castle in the Air
none





House of Many Ways is the sequel to both Howl's Moving Castle and Castle in the Air. Written by Diana Wynne Jones and published in 2008, it is the third and most recent book in the Castle Series.

Contents

1 Description
2 Plot Summary

2.1 At the beginning


3 Characters

3.1 Main Characters
3.2 Other Characters


4 References


Description
Charmain Baker is in over her head. Looking after Great-Uncle William's tiny cottage while he's ill should have been easy. But Great-Uncle William is better known as the Royal Wizard Norland, and his house bends space and time. Its single door leads to any number of places—the bedrooms, the kitchen, the caves under the mountains, the past, and the Royal Mansion, to name just a few. 
By opening that door, Charmain has become responsible for not only the house, but for an extremely magical stray dog, a muddled young apprentice wizard, and a box of the king's most treasured documents. She has encountered a terrifying beast called a lubbock, irritated a clan of small blue creatures, and wound up smack in the middle of an urgent search. The king and his daughter are desperate to find the lost, fabled Elfgift—so desperate that they've even called in an intimidating sorceress named Sophie to help. And where Sophie is, can the Wizard Howl and fire demon Calcifer be far behind? 
Of course, with that magical family involved, there's bound to be chaos—and unexpected revelations. 

Plot Summary
At the beginning
The story revolves around Charmain Baker, who is asked to look after her Great-Uncle William's house. Aunt Sempronia discusses the plans with her parents in High Norland City, the city around the Royal Mansion. The only problem is that Charmain always has her nose in a book and does not know anything about magic and has been raised thinking it to be vulgar by her mother. The next morning, Aunt Sempronia takes Charmain to the house.

Characters
Main Characters
William Norland,
Charmain Baker
Peter Regis
Waif
Other Characters
Howl
Sophie Hatter
Morgan
Calcifer
King Adolphus X
Princess Hilda
Jamal
Matilda of Montalbino
Timminz
Prince Ludovic
References