Title: Madame Suliman
URL: https://howlscastle.fandom.com//wiki/Madame_Suliman
--------------------------------------------------
Madame Suliman







Japanese
サリマン


Romanji
Sariman


Character Info


Gender
Female







								Movie
							





Age
70-80 years


Hair color
Light gray


Eye color
Dark gray




Professional status

Occupation
Royal Witch



Portrayal


Japanese
English


Haruko Kato
Blythe Danner




Madame Suliman is the main villain in Howl's Moving Castle movie adaptation. She is a combination of Mrs. Pentstemmon and Wizard Sulliman in the book.

Howl's Moving Castle (Movie)[]
Madame Suliman serves as the King's Royal Sorcerer who provides magic for the country's military forces and the King's personal use. She uses her power to hunt down wizards and witches across the kingdom, taking them in as apprentices and turning them into monsters to serve in the army, or stripping them of their power if they refuse.

    Madame Suliman in the castle  






Madame Suliman has a special liking for Howl as she expresses her regret of Howl not arriving to the palace saying that she had finally found someone that could replace her. She says this to Sophie who is posing as Howl's mother upon his request to avoid going to the palace. Madame Suliman however realises who Sophie truly is, and that she is in love with Howl. Howl arrives at the castle disguised as the King, Madame Suliman recognizes him because of his “eloquent” speech and the real King's appearance.
'Rather a weak disguise, didn't I teach you better?' 

    Madam Suliman casting the spell to transform Howl  
As Howl proceeds to leave, Madame Suliman casts a spell revealing to Sophie what Howl 'really' is, his beast/feathered form. Before the spell is complete and Howl completely transforms, Sophie saves him by calling his name and covering his eyes. Madame Suliman's spell is left incomplete as her magic pink glowing stick hits her hat instead.
Madame Suliman is voiced by Blythe Danner in the English version.

Abilities[]
Madame Suliman has proven to be a very powerful witch since even Howl has a certain respect and care for her, she is able to take away the magic of very powerful wizards and witches such as The Waste Witch, cast powerful illusion and revelation spells just by moving her staff and even make cursed people reveal their cursed forms.

Trivia[]
● Madam Suliman is perhaps the most powerful character in the movie.
● It is revealed that she was the one who banished the Witch to the Waste; in the book, it is the king who does banishes her.
● Ironically, both Madam Pentstemmon and Wizard Suliman, of whom Madam Suliman is combined, were defeated by the Witch of the Waste in the book.