Title: Witch of the Wastes
URL: https://howlscastle.fandom.com//wiki/Witch_of_the_Wastes
--------------------------------------------------
Witch of the Waste





Character Info


Gender
Female







								Movie
							



								Novels
							





Hair color
Bright pink


Eye color
Blue




Hair color
Dark red


Eye color
Dark




Portrayal


Japanese
English


Akihiro Miwa
Lauren BacallPippa Bennett-Warner (radio adaptation)





The Witch of the Waste (named Octavia in the BBC audio drama) is the main villain of the book Howl's Moving Castle and a secondary villain in its film version. 

Contents

1 Appearance

1.1 Book
1.2 Movie


2 Biography

2.1 Early Life
2.2 Howl's Moving Castle (Movie)
2.3 Howl's Moving Castle (Novel)


3 Abilities
4 Gallery


Appearance[]
Book[]
In the book the Witch of the Waste is an incredibly beautiful woman, she was thin, with pale skin, dark eyes and long wavy dark red hair.

Movie[]
In the movie the Witch is a tall and very fat woman with white skin, pale blue eyes, a long nose and bright pink hair.

Biography[]
Early Life[]
Decades before the beginning of the novel, the Witch caught a falling star which became her fire demon. Because of this, the Witch became evil. The relationship between her and her fire demon was parasitic, as the demon was draining her and her magic. Fifty years before the events of Howl's Moving Castle, the current King's father banished the Witch to the Waste, and the Witch bore the current King a grudge for that.
In the movie, Howl states he thought she was beautiful and decided to pursue her. She was really ugly on the inside and he left her. She grew angry and decided to curse him. The book doesn’t state anything specifically though. 

Howl's Moving Castle (Movie)[]
She is a talented witch who was so beautiful that Howl pursued her, but after finding out that she used magic to keep herself looking young and beautiful, he left her. She is still in love with Howl however, and uses her magical powers and henchmen to try and capture him after seeing him with Sophie. That is why she arrives at night to Sophie's hat shop, and insults her before turning her into a 90 year-old woman. As Sophie leaves her hometown in order to break the curse on her, she reaches Howl's castle. Through Sophie's pocket, the Witch uses ancient sorcery to put a powerful spell on Howl in the form of a note. The scorch marks read:

'     Scorchmarks from the Witch's Spell  You who swallowed a falling star, oh heartless man, your heart shall soon belong to me.'

Initially the antagonist, the Witch becomes somewhat of a protagonist after Madame Suliman lures her to the castle to drain her of her magical powers, restoring the Witch to her actual appearance and age, and replacing her as the antagonist in the movie. She is voiced by Lauren Bacall in the English dubbed version.

Howl's Moving Castle (Novel)[]
The Witch of the Waste is far more terrifying in the novel as she serves as the antagonist. In her first appearance in the novel, she curses Sophie by turning her into an old woman (she mistakes her for Lettie). Howl has spent the past year hiding from the Witch while trying to find Prince Justin and Wizard Suliman. Near the end of the novel, Howl kills the Witch when arriving at the Waste to rescue Sophie.

Abilities[]
The Witch of the Waste was a very powerful and feared witch with a vast arsenal of magical abilities. She was formerly a good witch, just until she made a pact with a fire demon. The relationship between her and the demon became parasitic, eventually draining her and her magic. Even though the demon had been doing so for many years she was still capable of casting curses. The catch was that she just couldn't reverse any curses placed. 
She cursed Sophie out of jealousy towards Howl's interest in her. She turned Sophie into a 90 year old woman and is capable of some form of telekinesis, as seen when she opened the locked door to Sophie's hat store. Due to the progression backwards in her moral compass, Madame Suliman lured the Witch of the Waste to drain her magical powers. Doing so returned the witch to her true appearance and rendered her powerless.

Gallery[]
Giant WitchThe Witch's henchmen who also carry her aroundThe powerful spell handed to Howl by Sophie from the WitchThe Witch, drained of all her magical powers