Title: 001
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/001
--------------------------------------------------
Season Two


Bread and Lottery

Halloween Party

001

Six Legs

One More Game

O X

Friend or Foe


This article is about the episode. For the other uses, see 001 (disambiguation)


001





							Title
							
						



							Episode
							
						






















Season
Episode
Overall




2
3
12





Episode Information

Duration
61 minutes


Air Date
December 26, 2024


Writer
Hwang Dong-hyuk


Director
Hwang Dong-hyuk




Episode Guide


Previous
Next




"Halloween Party"
"Six Legs"






I've played these games before! I said I've played these games before! I knew about the first game, because I'd already done it. 'Cause I played the exact same one. I was here three years ago, and I played them all. And every single person who was here with me... They were all killed everyone!
Seong Gi-hun to all the players during the first vote in 001 001 is the 3rd episode in Season 2 of the Netflix TV series Squid Game. It is the 12th episode of the series overall.
Contents

1 Synopsis
2 Plot
3 Cast

3.1 Starring
3.2 Guest Starring
3.3 Co-Starring


4 Trivia
5 Gallery

5.1 Promotional images
5.2 Screenshots (errors)


6 Reference:


Synopsis[]
New players gather for a chance to win 45.6 billion won. After an intense first round, the survivors' fates hang in the balance — down to one final vote.

—Official Netflix synopsis
Plot[]
Hwang Jun-ho and his team (including Choi Woo-seok) board Sea Captain Park's ship to search for The Island where the Squid Game is being held. 
Gi-hun wakes up to find himself and 454 other players in the Dormitory. Gi-hun sees that he's Player 456 again and gets out of bed, as he goes downstairs, Seon-nyeo (Player 044) calls out to him with extreme arrogance and contempt. She immediately clocks that Gi-hun is there because he wants to take revenge.
The Pink Guards arrive and one Manager welcomes the players to the Squid Games, he explains to them that the 456 players will participate in 6 games for 6 days and that those who win all 6 games will receive the handsome Prize money. Cho Hyun-ju (Player 120) tells the Manager that he told her that she was going to play games, but that she was kidnapped, so she asks him how she's going to trust what he says, the Manager apologizes and explains that it was to maintain the game's security. Lee Eun-ju (Player 283) asks the Manager why they wear masks and if their identity is also a secret, Kim Nam-du (Player 444) says that it's true, he asks why they hide their identity and if they're in an illegal gambling house, but Eun-ju says that even the dealers in those places don't wear masks, the Manager explains that they do not reveal the faces or identities of the staff to ensure that the gameplay remains fair and confidential and asks them to understand.
Kang Mi-na (Player 196) asks the Pink Guards if they stripped her to put the players' green uniform on her, Choi Su-bong/Thanos (Player 230) asks about the players' shoes, complaining that his shoes are limited edition and hard to find, and asks if they will replace them if they get ruined, Mi-na complains that her uniform is the wrong size and that she hates the colors, then she asks the Pink Guards if she can wear one of their pink suits, adding that it's her favorite color, the Manager apologizes and tells her that it can't be done, because the players must wear their uniforms for the games.
Then, Lee Myung-gi (Player 333) asks about his phone, he asks why they took his phone and wallet and asks for them back, the Manager tells him that the players' belongings are safe and that they will be returned to them when the games are over. Myung-gi asks that they at least give him his phone to check the crypto market and asks if they will compensate him if he loses money, but the Manager repeats to him that they will return their belongings when the games are over. Myung-gi tells him that he needs to be checking the prices and asks if he knows how much money he has invested, but then the Manager says Myung-gi's name and number. 
The Manager plays the video of Myung-gi playing Ddakji with The Recruiter and tells his story. Myung-gi is then recognized by Thanos and Kim Jun-hee (Player 222): Myung-gi is 30 years old and the owner of a YouTube channel called MG Coin. Myung-gi convinced his subscribers to invest in a new crypto coin called Dalmatian which had turned out to be a scam and caused him and everyone had convinced to invest lose ₩15,200,000,000. After this loss, he closed his channel and disappeared, and is wanted for financial crimes: fraud and violating telecom and financial investment laws. His current debt levels are ₩1,800,000,000.
The Manager proceeds to list debts of some other players:

Kang Mi-na (Player 196) ₩45,000,000 in debt
Cho Hyun-ju (Player 120) ₩330,000,000 in debt
Choi Su-bong/Thanos (Player 230) ₩1,190,000,000 in debt
Jang Do-yeong (Player 198) ₩1,400,000,000 in debt
Kim Yeong-sam (Player 226)  ₩1,900,000,000 in debt
Kim Nam-du (Player 444) ₩2,020,000,000 in debt
Sim Jae-seok (Player 343) ₩2,890,000,000 in debt
Park Mi-hwa (Player 006) ₩3,100,000,000 in debt
Lee Eun-ju (Player 283) ₩4,020,000,000 in debt
Im Jeong-dae (Player 100) ₩10,000,000,000 in debt
What are you looking at?! Think it's easy to get loans that large? They don't give out out ten billion to just anyone! You have to work in the big leagues for that!
Im Jeong-dae to the other players Everyone turns to Jeong-dae, surprised by his debt, but the bitter old man retaliates, aggressively asking what they are looking at and if they think it's easy to get a ₩10,000,000,000 loan, suggesting he is more important than the other players. Jeong-dae says that they don't lend as much money anymore and that the game is his only way to pay his debt.
The Manager tells the players that they're all living on the edge with debts that they simply cannot pay and reminds them that when they played Ddakji and won, they gave them the money they promised them and asks them if they want to live like a piece of trash — running from creditors — or take advantage of this last opportunity offered to them. Gi-hun checks his tooth to find that he still has it.
On the boat, Jun-ho is tracking the location of Gi-hun with the hidden locator in his tooth, Woo-seok thinks it's one of the islands in front of them and Jun-ho tells Captain Park to speed up.
In the Dormitory, the Manager reveals the piggy bank, he tells them that it will contain the prize money and that as they play the 6 games, the prize money will accumulate in the piggy bank. Park Yong-sik (Player 007) asks what the total value of the prize money is, he's recognized by Jang Geum-ja (Player 149) and the Manager tells Yong-sik that the total prize is ₩45,600,000,000, the players are excited to hear the total prize, Yong-sik asks if only 1 player can win and the Manager tells him that they will give the details of the prize distribution later, after the first game.
Then the Manager reveals that for that games, they will have a special new advantage, Jeong-dae asks what it's and the Manager says that at the end of each game, they can vote if they want to continue the game or finish the game, if the majority votes to finish, they can walk away with the prize money accumulated up to that point, divided by all remaining players. Gi-hun asks for clarity that this means they can just play 1 game and leave with the money and the Manager tells him that's correct.
Gi-hun turns to look at a camera and stares at it, thinking about the people behind the game, while Hwang In-ho/Front Man watches him from the control room. Geum-ja asks the players to move, she makes her way to Yong-sik and hits him, Yong-sik turns to see her and realizes that it's his mother, he asks Geum-ja what she's doing there, to which the old woman says she wants to ask her and asks her good-for-nothing son what he's doing there, Yong-sik asks his mother why she came there and tells her that that is no place for an old woman, to which Geum-ja tells her son that she came to pay his debt. Yong-sik asks the Manager why he brought an old woman there and if they will be held responsible if her mother collapses, Geum-ja tells her son that she will take care of it and that he should go home, but Yong-sik tells him that he can't, Geum-ja reminds him that he promised her to stop gambling and Yong-sik tells her that they're not going to bet there, but rather they are going to play and that he'll just play one game and leave, but the mother and the son continue to disagree with the other being there.
Players pass to sign the consent agreement and agree to play the game, Myung-gi signs the contract and leaves, but then he's confronted by Thanos and Nam-gyu (Player 124), they ask him if he's from the MG Coin channel and Myung-gi asks them who they're, Thanos tells him that he subscribed to his channel and blames him for making him lose a lot of money and Nam-gyu adds that he too, Myung-gi tells them that they are confusing him with someone else and tries to leave, but Thanos stops him, tells him that he always watches his videos and that he even sees him in his dreams, Thanos tells Myung-gi that at least thanks to him, he quickly joined Nam-gyu (whom he accidentally calls "Nam-su"). Myung-gi asks them what they want, Thanos grabs him by the neck (to the surprise of the players) and tells him that he wants him to pay him what he lost, Myung-gi frees himself and tells him that he didn't force them to buy that coin, Thanos tells him that he told his subscribers to invest all their money, that it would always go up and that if they didn't they were idiots, but Myung-gi says he always says at the end of his videos: "You are responsible for the final decision of your investment." and questions that he always sees him, Thanos tries to hit Myung-gi but Nam-gyu stops him and tells him that if he hits him it will be on the news, Thanos tells Myung-gi that he better do well since he plans to go after his money and the aggressors leave, Thanos turns to look flirtatiously at Mi-na and Myung-gi leaves, without noticing that Jun-hee is watching him.
Gi-hun reads the contract and sees that it only has 4 clauses:
1. A player is not allowed to voluntarily quit the games.
2. A player who refuses to play will be eliminated.
3. The games may be terminated upon a majority vote, in case of a tie, players will vote again.
4. If the games are terminated, players will divide the prize equally.
The Manager says that those who don't want to play, inform the staff at that moment, he and Gi-hun exchange glances and Gi-hun signs the contract.
On the boat, Captain Park questions Jun-ho for suddenly coming to search for the island with his men and reminds him that he's the captain, so he must be aware of the situation, Jun-ho tells him that he found Gi-hun, that he already participated in the games and that he was taken back to the island. Jun-ho shows Captain Park that he's locating Gi-hun with the locator. Then Woo-seok tells Jun-ho that according to his phone, it's an island in front of them, Jun-ho asks Captain Park if he knows the island and Captain Park tells him yes, he tells him that people used to live there, but nowadays, people only come to fish, Woo-seok thinks it could be the place and Jun-ho thinks it's possible, but he doesn't see any road or structure, Jun-ho tells him that he will use a drone to look for them and that he should disembark to look for the signal, Woo-seok tells him that he will do it and tells the men to prepare to disembark.
The Announcer tells the players that the first game is going to begin and and they are taken to take their players' photos, Thanos is recognized by Gyeong-su (Player 256) and he's excited to see that it's a famous rapper, Gyeong-su introduces himself and tells Thanos that he is his big fan, more players recognize Thanos and get excited, everyone approaches and asks Thanos if they can take a photo with him, Nam-gyu tells the crowd to calm down and just take a photo together, Thanos tells Mi-na that she can also join but she ignores him, everyone prepares for the photo but the Manager tells them that they must take a photo one by one, the crowd asks if he can't make an exception since they took their phones but the Manager tells them that they can't, Thanos tells the crowd that he will take a photo with them when they come out, the crowd gets excited, moves and Thanos takes his photo. Mi-na, Nam-gyu, Myung-gi, Jun-hee, Seon-nyeo and Jeong-dae take their photos and Hyun-ju stops by to take her photo. Geum-ja sees her and asks Yong-sik if Hyun-ju is a man or a woman, Yong-sik realizes that Hyun-ju is a transgender woman and explains to his mother about transgender people, but Geum-ja doesn't understand and starts saying potentially offensive things about transgenderism, so her son tells her to shut up and not say that. Gi-hun stops by to take his photo and his photo is added to the control room.
On the stairs, Thanos runs to catch up with Mi-na and Gi-hun is walking when he suddenly hears someone calling him, then he realizes that it's Park Jung-bae (Player 390), his best friend, Gi-hun is surprised to see him and Jung-bae is happy to see that Gi-hun is alive, Gi-hun asks him what he's doing there and Jung-bae asks him the same question, Jung-bae tells Gi-hun that he hasn't heard from him in 3 years and that his mother died, he adds that it was his wife who told him, questions him as a friend and asks if he stopped talking to him because he did not lend him money, then Yeong-sam tells them to keep moving, Gi-hun grabs Jung-bae and they keep walking. Gi-hun tells him that it wasn't like that and that it's a long story, Jung-bae sees the point since he's there, but tells him that he should have told him about his mother and that he know how much she liked him, Gi-hun asks him what he is doing there and what about his wife, to which Jung-bae tells him that they got divorced, Gi-hun gets surprised and asks him about his daughter, to which Jung-bae tells him that she's with her mother, Gi-hun asks him why they divorced since he thought they were fine and asks if he had an affair, to which Jung-bae tells him that he would never do that, Jung-bae tells him that he doesn't want to talk about it there and that he will tell him everything with a drink when they get out. Gi-hun worries about his friend's life, puts him against the wall and tells him to stay by his side from that moment on, Jung-bae thinks he's being dramatic and accepts without understanding that Gi-hun is trying to save him from death.
On the island, they discover that the device is in a stranger's fishing bait and that they were never tracking Gi-hun's location. The man explains that someone had extra bait so they gave it to him. In the control room, the Masked Officer tells In-ho that they are ready to start the game, as In-ho leaves, the Officer orders the Managers to start video transmission.
The players arrive at the first game and it's announced that the first game is Red Light, Green Light, Thanos flirts with Mi-na, who is somewhat impressed and she focuses on Young-hee. The doors suddenly slam shut and the first game is announced. Players are shocked at it being a children's game and are mostly confused. As they wait for it to start, Gi-hun realizes that the tracker in his tooth is missing, what makes him believe that it will be his end.
Wanting to ensure that as many people live as possible, Gi-hun stands in front of everybody and announces that they will be killed if they do not comply with the games rules and move when they're not supposed to. At first, the players don't believe him, Eun-ju then yells at him if they were really going to be killed while playing. Gi-hun answered her it was right, and even says the bullet would be shot from somewhere. Mi-na believes that he had drunk, Thanos tells her that his dad had used to be do so, but babbling when normal, saying that there is "a freaking bug" on his head. As Gi-hun tells them that Young-hee's eyes were motion detectors, much to Thanos' enjoyment as he talks about devices. Yong-sik tells the joke that they might meet their deceased father. The others were extremely confused and mad with Gi-hun, Player 066 thought that he was making it up to scare them in order to obtain the money for himself.
In Front Man's room, In-ho takes off his mask and watches the game with a drink. The game starts and the players start moving while Gi-hun tells them when to stop, which works and the 456 players manage to stay alive for 7 red lights, although some players (including Jung-bae) question what Gi-hun is doing. Mi-na wonders if Gi-hun is on drugs, but Thanos tells her no and that you don't act like that when you're on drugs, Mi-na asks if he's been on drugs before and Thanos asks why she asks. But then a bee lands on Mi-na's neck, Thanos informs her about the bee and Mi-na panics and moves to get it off, Mi-na calms down, nervously tells Thanos that she moved and lets out a laugh, then she gets shot in the head (splattering Thanos with her blood and alerting Gi-hun that she dead) and falls to the ground dead, being eliminated. Gi-hun tells everyone not to move and tells Jung-bae not to move no matter what, Thanos is shocked to see Mi-na's corpse and Gi-hun tells everyone not to move, but then Eun-ju turns to see Mi-na's corpse and screams in horror, moving and causing her to be shot in the heart, being eliminated. Players realize that if they move they will die and some of them (among which is 066) start running towards the doors, causing them to be eliminated by the shooters, one of whom is Kang No-eul.
The players realize that Gi-hun is telling the truth and no one moves for fear of being shot. Gi-hun advances in front of the others and Thanos, scared that if he loses he will die, takes out his cross (which contains drugs) and takes a drug to avoid fear, Gi-hun (with his mouth covered and his left hand behind his back) tells the players that they must get to the finish line or they will die and the doll has motion sensors and that it will not see them if they hide behind someone, so he tells them to form a line, putting the tallest people in front and the shortest people in the back.
Gi-hun's strategy works and many players manage to stay alive, and Jung-bae told him from behind, that he'll stay behind him from here on out. Although some are detected moving and are eliminated, Player 188 trembles in fear, she's detected moving and No-eul shoots her in the heart, eliminating her, Player 244 is also detected moving and No-eul proceeds to look for her to eliminate her, but then she sees Park Gyeong-seok (Player 246), she recognizes him as the father of Park Na-yeon and discovers that he entered the game to pay for his daughter's hospital. Jun-hee begins to suffer contractions from her pregnancy, which begins to attract the doll's attention and Gi-hun tells the group not to move, but then Thanos (under the effect of the drug) pushes Players 216, 257 and 270, the doll detects them moving and the 3 players are eliminated.
With Gi-hun's coordination, most of the players manage to reach the finish line and complete the game, but near the finish line, Player 165 is detected moving and is shot in the head, his corpse falls back and pushes Player 384, causing her to push Nam-du, 384 is detected moving and is shot in the heart, her corpse falls back and pushes Nam-du a little. The doll turns to look at Nam-du and he begins to declare that he did not move and that 384 pushed him, but he is detected moving and Soldier 005 shoots him in the right leg, eliminating him.
Gi-hun tells the last players that they can make it and that they are almost at the finish line, then Nam-du calls for help and Gi-hun realizes he's still alive, Gi-hun sees that there are 30 seconds left and runs to help him as Jung-bae asks where he was going. Gi-hun tells Nam-du to get up at the next Green Light, Nam-du gets up and Gi-hun carries him with Hyun-ju's help as Young-hee says Red Light. With 5 seconds left, the 3 players run and manage to reach the finish line just in time, finishing the first game.
Gi-hun asks Nam-du if he is okay and Nam-du thanks Gi-hun and Hyun-ju for saving him, but then No-eul shoots him in the head, killing him.
Woo-seok feels indignant as they cannot find Gi-hun's location, Park mentions that there will be a storm that night, so he returns home.
Back in the dormitory, they are worried as they process they aftermath of the game. Jung-bae asks Gi-hun about the doll and believes that its eyes shot bullets, but Gi-hun corrects him and explains that they are sniper teams in the walls. His proficient knowledge shocks Jung-bae who asks if he knows about that, and that he's been there before. The pink guards come to their room and congratulate them on completing the first game. They announce that 91 out of 456 people were eliminated - therefore, 365 people have successfully cleared the game. Geum-ja and Yong-sik tearfully beg them to end the games and promise to pay off their debts, and so do some of the players. Gi-hun then announces the third rule in the consent form - the games can be ended if majority of the players vote to leave. 
The guards announce that the amount of money after the first game is ₩9.1 billion. They explain that if the game were to end, this money would be divided equally between players. At this stage that would mean ₩24,931,500 each, to which some players complain, stating that its not enough to cover their debts, especially Thanos, who thought the prize should be ₩45.6 billion. The Manager explained that each eliminated players will increase the prize in ₩100 million, and if they succeed in all six games, the remaining players would get an equal amount of the ₩45.6 billion grand prize. Yeong-sam also asks to them if one survivor only can get the whole prize money of ₩45.6 billion, to which the manager says that it was correct. And Do-yeong asks if there are another vote in the next game, the manager said they will have voting in each game ended. 

In the vote, each person chooses either 'X' or 'O' on whether they want to continue the games or not. They are given a badge with that corresponding letter to put on their jackets and stand on either side of the room. The vote starts from the largest number, 456, to the smallest, 001. As he's Player 456, Gi-hun is the first to vote. While walks toward to the vote, Seon-nyeo yells to players that everything was pointless, which says that their existence and lost weren't be decided by themselves, which their gods do. She even says that they couldn't escape from the game organize, no matter how hard they tried. Gi-hun then walks to the vote, who naturally votes 'X'. The process continues with the number of votes being extremely tight. After Thanos' vote, at which point the 'X'-'O' score was 87-93, Gi-hun advises the other players (who haven't casted their votes yet) to stop the game and vote to leave. Jeong-dae, scolds him for always instigating them, Player 254 blames him for almost killing her after hearing that they would be shot in the first game, because she was too nervous and almost died, Yeong-sam also suspects that he is part of the game's staff as he knew that the soldiers would shoot them. Hearing this, Jeong-dae tells Gi-hun that he was an "infiltrator" and yells at the guards for putting Gi-hun in the game. But Jung-bae tells the bitter old man to shut up and tells him, 254 and Team O that thanks to Gi-hun they are all alive, then Jung-bae tells Yeong-sam that he saw that he was so scared that he was going to pee himself and that he should thank Gi-hun, instead of calling him a liar (to which Yeong-sam asks Jung-bae if he was also an infiltrator like Gi-hun, and Jung-bae asked him if he had good manners at all). Geum-ja stops them from arguing and advises the other players that it was thanks to Gi-hun they survived, and told them to take care of their lives and leave together.If you keep playing until the end, I guarantee every person in this room... will eventually end up like those players. We will all be killed.
Seong Gi-hun warning all the players to stop during the first vote in 001 An argument ensues over whether to leave or not. Gi-hun then reveals that he's played these games before (explaining to them that he knew about the first game, because he already done it, and played the exact same one). Gi-hun told them that he was there three years ago, and played all of them and had seen how many people died, divulging that he was the ultimate winner. He warns them that they could share the same fate as the previous players if they don't agree to leave once they kept playing until the very end. Jeong-dae argues against Gi-hun, annoyed as the prize money, as it stands, would not even begin to cover his debt of ₩10 billion, and even more indignant when Gi-hun, who had won and received a huge prize, had to return to the game (to which he even asks why would he come back), which makes players also blame him as a liar. Thanos approaches Gi-hun and says that his presence could aid the gameplay for players and help them succeed in the games. This leads some of the rest still hasn't voted yet, changed their minds of continuing the game.
Having the opposite effect than he'd wanted, Gi-hun then begs the other players to vote to leave the game, but is stopped by the guards for interference. The vote continues and reaches an 182-182 tie, leaving the final decision in the hands of Player 001. Both teams turn to see 001 and try to convince him to join them, 001 passes to vote, puts his hand on the buttons and thinks about his decision, finally 001 makes his decision... and votes for "O", allowing the games to continue. The players who voted to stay rejoice while the others silently lament over the results.
Then, 001 turns around and reveals to the audience that he is In-ho, who has joined the games as a player. He glances over at a devastated Gi-hun with a slight smirk.

Cast[]
Starring[]
Lee Jung-jae as Seong Gi-hun (Player 456)
Lee Byung-hun as Hwang In-ho
Wi Ha-joon as Hwang Jun-ho
Im Si-wan as Lee Myung-gi (Player 333)
Kang Ha-neul as Kang Dae-ho (Player 388) (icon only)
Lee Seo-hwan as Park Jung-bae (Player 390)
Lee Jin-wook as Park Gyeong-seok (Player 246)
Park Gyu-young as Kang No-eul
Park Sung-hoon as Cho Hyun-ju (Player 120)
Yang Dong-geun as Park Yong-sik (Player 007)
Jo Yu-ri as Kim Jun-hee (Player 222)
Kang Ae-shim as Jang Geum-ja (Player 149)

Guest Starring[]
T.O.P as Thanos (Player 230)
Song Ji-woo as Kang Mi-na (Player 196)
Lee Eun-mi as Lee Eun-ju (Player 283)
Jo Hyun-Woo  as Kim Nam-du (Player 444)
Kim Si-eun as Kim Young-mi (Player 095) (icon only)
Won Ji-an as Se-mi (Player 380) (icon only)
Roh Jae-won as Nam-gyu (Player 124)
Kang Sung-wook as Gyeong-su (Player 256)
Lee David as Park Min-su (Player 125) (icon only)
Song Young-chang as Im Jeong-dae (Player 100)
Lee Sung-woo as Kim Yeong-sam (Player 226)
Jeon Seok-ho as Choi Woo-seok
Chae Kook-hee  as Seon-nyeo (Player 044)
Oh Dal-su as Sea Captain Park
Co-Starring[]
Jang Jae-ho as Number 005
Jo Si-nae as Park Mi-hwa (Player 006)
Park Hyun-chul as Jang Do-yeong (Player 198)
Seo Soo-chan as Player 004
Kim Su-jin as Player 020
Byeon Ye-jin as Player 031
Yoon Hyo-sik as Player 036
Choi Hee-do as Player 043
Choi Sun-jin as Player 066
Lee Suk as Player 096 (icon only)
Han Ju-mi as Player 184
Jeon Min-jung as Player 188
Kim Shin-yul as Player 216
Noh Seong-hu as Player 217
Jeon Kang-ho as Player 237
Park Bo-kyung as Player 254
Lee Yoo-seop as Player 293
Kim Seung-hee as Player 308
Oh Tae-eun as Player 394
Nam Ji-hyun as Player 400
Han Sang-chul as Player 411
Lee Sang-jin as Player 418
Jeong Eun-kyung as Player 454
Jang Kyug-soo as Fisherman
Sung Do-hyun as Mercenary Team Leader Kim
Trivia[]
This is the first episode in Season 2 where Seong Gi-hun and the other 455 players begin the 37th Squid Game.
This episode features the Red Light, Green Light game.
The Man with the Umbrella, Gganbu, Front Man, 222, and this episode are the only episodes that reference a character.
This episode and 222 are the only episodes with numbers as the title.
There are some errors or mistakes that occur in the episode:
As the Front Man watches the game from his chair before Eun-ju saw Mi-na's corpse, three other bodies can be seen on the ground, even though there would logically be only one body at that moment.
During the initial chaos in Red Light, Green Light with the icons disappearing, Player 163's icon can be seen in place of Player 043's icon.
When Jung-bae is done the vote, the manager mentioned Player 388, who is Kang Dae-ho, for a vote. However, Player 389, who also survived in the first game, is seen walks toward to the vote, which leads his number player didn't heard to be mentioned that skipped to 388.
Gi-Hun states that he previously participated in the games three years prior. However, season 1 was set in 2020, and this season is set in 2024, meaning it has actually been 4 years.
When the manager lists players, names, and debts, he lists ten players who would go on to be either significant characters, or characters with the most memorable deaths. The season one counterpart has only five, reflecting the second season's larger cast of characters.
Kang Mi-na is the first death of this episode and the first player death of the season.
This episode introduces the majority of the S3 players.
Gallery[]
Promotional images[]
Gi-hun behind him is the hidden Player 001.
Screenshots (errors)[]
The three extra bodies (pointed at with red arrows).Player icons during the chaos of Red Light, Green Light in Season 2, with an error showing Player 163's icon in place of Player 043's and 097's icon in place of 013's.
Reference:[]
Squid GameSeason 1
Red Light, Green Light
Hell
The Man with the Umbrella
Stick to the Team
A Fair World
Gganbu
VIPS
Front Man
One Lucky Day
Season 2
Bread and Lottery
Halloween Party
001
Six Legs
One More Game
O X
Friend or Foe
Season 3
Keys and Knives
The Starry Night
It's Not Your Fault
222
⭘△☐
Humans Are...