Title: 007 (37th Squid Game)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/007_(37th_Squid_Game)
--------------------------------------------------
Park Yong-sik






Name
Park Yong-sik


Aliases
Player 007 (37th Squid Game)


Family
Jang Geum-ja † (mother; indirect killer)Unnamed father †Unnamed maternal grandmother †


Relationships
Friends/AlliesCho Hyun-ju † (close friend)Kim Young-mi † (close friend)Park Gyeong-seok (friend)Seong Gi-hun † (friend)Park Jung-bae † (friend)Hwang In-ho (disguised enemy, unknowingly)NeutralUnnamed close friend/traitorKim Jun-hee † (former friend; attempted victim out of desperation)Kang Dae-ho † (former ally; unintentional indirect victim)Kwon Byeong-su †Player 145 †Player 016 † (attempted ally in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 178 † (attempted ally in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 189 † (attempted ally in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 220 † (forced partner)Kim Yeong-sam † (former enemy)Lee Myung-gi † (savior in the fourth round of Mingle)Kim Gi-min  † (accidental savior)EnemiesSeon-nyeo † (former ally; teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Im Jeong-dae †Player 172 † (forced partner; situational enemy; attempted victim and attempted killer)Pink GuardsManagersSoldiersWorkers


Affiliation
Squid Games37th Squid GameTeam XTeam O (formerly)Cho Hyun-ju's teamSeong Gi-hun's teamHiders (formerly)SeekersRevolt team (attempted)


Born
1982[1] (age 42)[2]


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
November 5, 2024[3]Hide and Seek


Cause of death
Stabbed in back with the secret Hair pin knife by his mom and shot repeatedly 6 times by a soldier off-screen for not killing a hider in time.



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Black


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Yang Dong-geun





First appearance
Last appearance




"001"
"⭘△☐" (mentioned)







Voting




Round 1
Round 2
Round 3















Round 3 Tie











I took out a loan at one of those illegal casinos. If I don't pay it off by next month, it'll get ugly. They said if I can't get them the money in time, they're going to harvest my eyes, liver, and kidneys. I know these guys'll go through with it. That's the reason I haven't been around a lot. It wasn't safe at home. Look, I promise you, just this one. And after that, I'll vote to end it. One more, and I'll have enough to pay off all my debts. And you... you and I can start fresh.
Park Yong-sik to his mother in "One More Game"

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Park Mi-hwa(Player 006)
Player 008







Park Yong-sik (박용식 Bag Yong-sig?), also known as Player 007, was the adult son of Jang Geum-ja who entered the Squid Games in order to pay off his gambling debts. He appears in Season 2 and Season 3.

Contents

1 Personality
2 History

2.1 Backstory
2.2 2024
2.3 Fate
2.4 Legacy


3 Behind the scenes
4 Kill count
5 Trivia
6 Appearances
7 Gallery

7.1 Season 2
7.2 Season 3
7.3 Promotional
7.4 Behind the scenes


8 References


Personality
How dare you, sir! He wouldn't leave me, not my son. He didn't grow up with a lot, but I know deep down he's a good person. Even though he got bullied and knocked around, he never laid a hand on anyone or beat other kids up, not once, so don't you badmouth my son!
Jang Geum-ja about Yong-sik to Hwang In-ho in "O X"
Having gotten himself into a lot of debt because of gambling, Yong-sik appears reckless and impulsive. He loves his mom very much and is loyal to her, becoming hysterical when he was separated from his mother, and worried about her safety. He is also amicable and approachable, forging friendships and alliances with numerous players. Although he listens to his mother's guidance most of the time, there are times he does not go with what she says, such as voting to continue the game because his debt was higher than what he initially told her. He also tended to blame himself excessively for his mistakes, to the point of nearly committing suicide once because he considered himself a failure to his mother.

History
Backstory
That grandma is actually my mother.
Yong-sik to Player 016's team in "Six Legs"Park Yong-sik was born to Jang Geum-ja and his unnamed father and grew up in the neighborhood of Bongcheon-dong. He worked for a company that eventually went bankrupt, which he blamed himself for. As an adult, Yong-sik became an immature and shameless gambler, racking up debts totaling ₩250 million, including a loan of ₩100 million borrowed from various loan sharks and a gambling den. He was also stolen from a friend he thought he could trust.
One day, Geum-ja was tired of his behaviour and started yelling at Yong-sik, which resulted in him overdosing and leaving a suicide note that he was sorry for being a failure. He was rushed to the hospital, where he ultimately survived the overdose. It was from then on Geum-ja decided that she would do anything to protect Yong-sik, even if it meant killing herself.
Around October 2024, his creditors gave him an ultimatum and threatened to harvest his organs if he didn't pay off his loans by the next month, so he began to avoid going home. He ultimately decided to join the Squid Games in order to settle his debts.

2024
Park Yong-sik awakens in the Squid Game Dormitory with the other players and bumps into Geum-ja. Upon seeing him, she scolds him for joining the Squid Game, saying that she joined of her own accord, to get the money to pay off his debts, with him responding that she did not need to go that far for him. They remain extremely close throughout the game and befriend Kim Young-mi and Cho Hyun-ju through the second game, and also get along well with Seong Gi-hun, Park Jung-bae, Hwang In-ho, Kang Dae-ho and Kim Jun-hee.  You destroyed my life, fucker. You ruined EVERYTHING!
Yong-sik before passing Flying Stone on the second attempt in "One More Game"In Red Light, Green Light, he initially mocked Seong Gi-hun when he warned everyone about the game, joking that he'd get to see his father. Upon seeing he was right, he followed his instructions with he and his mom both surviving. After completion, Yong-sik considered voting for "O", but his mother told him not to do a stupidity, so Yong-sik listened to her and voted for "X". In the second game, him and his mother teamed up with Kim Young-mi, Seon-nyeo and Cho Hyun-ju to complete "Six Legs".      Let's get outta here!
Yong-sik to Team X after changing his vote in O X in "O X"After this he voted to stay in the game, wanting to gain more money to pay off all of his debts, including one he did not previously tell his mother about. Jang Geum-ja was initially angry until Park Yong-sik explained his vote to stay. After passing all the rounds in the third game, "Mingle", he and his mom both voted to leave the game, joining the "X" team, but again were forced to stay, due to the result being a tie. Before the Bathroom Fight while he might have been one of the first to notice that many of Team O have now lost their minds over the money. Following his mother's advise, he attempts to talk to Team O into changing their minds by offering to buy everyone food, but this only led to the two sides arguing. Being close to Seong Gi-hun, he and Jang Geum-ja were told about Seong's plan to attack and kill the Squid Game staff. He and his mom followed Seong's order to stay away from the murderous fight Group O launched on Group X that ensued at night, though he and his mom did not join Seong Gi-hun in his rebellion mission, thus allowing him and Jang Geum-ja to stay safe and to live another night.      
Do you think we can? Look at them over there. You know they've gone completely crazy with greed.
Yong-sik to Seong Gi-hun's team in "O X"      
Yong-sik wanted to help in Gi-hun's Revolt but he was held back by his mother who didn't let him join because she was afraid he would die in the rebellion. With the help of Kim Jun-Hee and Jang Geum-Ja, they helped Kang Dae-ho at getting the magazines. Hyun-ju, why are you sorry? This is Dae-ho's fault. Come on, I saw it, my mom saw it. Everyone here saw what happened. As soon as Dae-ho got here, he took the rounds, went to leave, and then just froze and sank right to the floor. And by the time Hyun-ju got here, it was already too late. The guards had all started to rush in. And if my mom hadn't stopped her, then, well. Hyun-ju would've died too. That's the truth, right?
Park Yong-sik to Cho Hyun-ju, Seong Gi-hun, and his mother in "Keys and Knives"     Yong-sik tells Geum-ja not to disturb Gi-hun.  
Later on, Yong-sik was shocked and relieved to see Gi-hun alive and asked if he was fine. He felt extremely guilty that Gi-hun demanded to be killed from the guilt of the revolt. He was shown at the start of the revote. He was shown along with his mother and Hyun-ju where all three of them appeared disappointed when Player 448 changed her vote in fear. In the revote, he voted X to terminate the games. However, the games continued on after the Os win after the revote by a large amount afterwards he watched Gi-hun strangle Seon-nyeo. During their meal time, Geum-ja offered the depressed Gi-hun some food for him to eat, but he didn't even say a word. Yong-sik didn't appear to want to disturb Gi-hun much, likely because Gi-hun wasn't in his right mind at the moment so he felt it would be better to leave him alone for a little while. The old woman sympathizes with him saying that he did what he thought was right when he tried to stop the games. Hyun-ju then apologized to Gi-hun for failing to bring the ammunition on time, but Yong-sik tells her that it wasn't her fault, but Dae-ho's. He explained to Gi-hun that earlier when Dae-ho arrived, he took the magazines, he freaked out and went back to the dorm. By the time Hyun-ju got back it was already too late, the guards rushed in to put an end to the rebellion. And if his mom hadn't stopped her, Hyun-ju would have died as well, then Geum-ja tells the three of them that sitting around doing nothing is not going to bring anyone back from the dead, so they should focus on who is still alive.  
Before the Fourth Game Yong-Sik saw the rebel's corpses hung as a warning to the other players a sight that disturbed him and his mother, he received a blue ball meaning he would on be on Blue Team. Although Geum-ja and himself made a agreement to switch teams despite by his mother implied that he is good at hiding and never lost one, but he ended up on the Red Team. He came across a room with Player 172, he attempted to kill him but was overpowered due to his hesitation. As he was about to be killed, Kim Gi-min saved him by stabbing Player 172 in the back.  

Fate
Mom, I... I... I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Yong-sik's last words to his mother in "The Starry Night"
Towards the end of the round, Yong-sik ran into his mother Geum-ja and Jun-hee. Crying, he states that he hasn't killed anyone. His mother holds the knife to her stomach and tells Yong-sik to kill her instead of Jun-hee. Yong-sik says he can't do that to her and goes to stab Jun-hee instead, but in a state of desperation, Geum-ja stabs him in the back with her hairpin.  
Yong-sik turns to her and collapses. He apologizes to his mother, and they share their final moments together before he is shot off-screen by the guards, while his mother pleads for him to be spared. He also made a short appearance in the start of the next episode, with guards putting his corpse into a coffin.

Legacy
After his death, Geum-ja goes into a depressed state, while helping Jun-hee with the baby. She begged other players to vote X and end the games in 5th voting as she now had no reason to live. However, Os won the majority with 16 out of 25 votes. (As some coldly ignored her while others were too scared of Team O.) Later that night, Geum-ja converses with Gi-hun, explaining how unfair life is by giving an example of Yong-sik. She described how sensitive and troubled her son was and one day tried to commit suicide because she screamed at him for his gambling addiction. After requesting Gi-hun to protect Jun-hee and her baby, she committed suicide in the dormitory by hanging herself from grief. This causes Gi-hun to snap out of his depressive state and gave him the determination to protect Jun-hee and the baby. Though he failed to save Jun-hee, he saved the baby's life by allowing her to be the winner of the 37th Squid Game by jumping off the platform, thus eliminating himself in the Final Game.

Behind the scenes
Park Yong-sik was portrayed by Yang Dong-geun. In the English dub, he voiced by Brent Mukai and in french dub he voiced by Philippe Bozo.

Kill count
Indirect killsAttempted kills


Character

Information

Image/GIF


"The Starry Night"Hide and Seek


Kang Dae-ho(Player 388)

Indirectly and unintentionally caused his death by telling Gi-hun it was all his fault.

https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/File:007IndirectKill388.mp3



Character

Information

Image/GIF


"It's Not Your Fault"Dormitory(Mentioned, occured before the games)


Himself

Attemped to commit suicide by taking pills after feeling guilt for his failures; interrupted by Jang Geum-ja taking him to the hospital and saving him.

      https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/File:Yong-sik_attemped_kill.mp3


"O X"Mingle


Seon-nyeo(Player 044)

Indirectly attemped by abandoning her during the 2nd Round of Mingle; alongside Young-mi, Hyun-ju and Geum-ja.




"The Starry Night"Hide and Seek


Player 172

Attempted murder with a hunting knife to pass the game.




Kim Jun-hee(Player 222)



Trivia
Yong-sik has been to Thailand before and holds a fairly positive opinion of the transgender community there.
Yong-sik's death is often regarded as the most emotional in Season 3.
His player number, 007, is a prime number. His mother's player number, 149, is also prime. Whether this is intentional or not is unknown.
Yong-sik has very indirectly killed Dae-ho as he indirectly provoked Gi-hun to want to kill Dae-ho by saying that he was the culprit, although it was intended to make Hyun-ju feel better.
Yong-sik was the last player with a single-digit player number to be eliminated in the 37th Squid Game.
Yong-sik is the only Seeker whose death was announced.
During filming for the scene where he tries to convince his mother to switch teams with him, Yang Dong-geun was told to combine seriousness with 'Yong-sik-ness'.
When filming the Biseokchigi scene in Six-Legged Pentathlon, Yang Dong-geun thought that he wouldn't really need to hit the tombstone with the stone, and that they would use CGI. But the director told him to seriously hit the tombstone to save money on CGI. This made Dong-geun feel intimidated, since there were around 100 people looking at him during the filming.[4]
Yong-sik is presumably the first Seeker to be eliminated after time ran out.
Yong-sik dies with his eyes naturally closing. The only other main character in season three to do so is his mother.
Yong-sik was the first X voter to switch to O during the 37th Squid Games.
He is the last player in the 00X range to be eliminated in the 37th squid game.
His voting pattern is completely unique to him.
Since Yong-sik placed 35th in the competition, his 33rd Squid Game counterpart is Player 068.
He is the only major Hide and Seek death to vote X on the first vote.
He and Kim Young-mi are the only main characters from the 37th Squid Game to die via being shot.
Coincidentally they're both from Hyun-ju's team.
Appearances
Season Two
"001"
"Six Legs"
"One More Game"
"O X"
"Friend or Foe"
Season Three
"Keys and Knives"
"The Starry Night"
"It's Not Your Fault" (corpse)
"⭘△☐" (indirectly mentioned)
Gallery
Season 2
Yong-sik's icon.Yong-sik watching players get slapped.Yong-sik surprised and mad to see his mom in the games.Yong-sik explaining trans people to his mom while waiting to take his picture in the gamehall.Ditto.Yong-sik mocking Gi-hun.Yong-sik stand still on red lightYong-sik looking at Kang Mi-na.Yong-sik seeing people get killed.Yong-sik runs on a green light.Yong-sik just before crossing the finish line.Yong-sik and Geum-ja crossing the finish line.Park Yong-sik looking at Gi-hun.Yong-sik looking at the voting buttons.Yong-sik listening to his mother.Yong-sik pressing X after his mothers words.Yong-sik and Geum-ja looking at Hyun-ju and Young-mi.Yong-sik lookin at Seon-nyeo.Yong-sik after his mother told him to think about the person who scammed him out of his money.Yong-sik passing Biseokchigi in BTS footage.Yong-sik counting two as Hyun-ju plays jegi.Yong-sik and his team about to cross the finish line in the Six-Legged Pentathlon.Yong-sik after crossing the finish line.Yong-sik celebrating.Yong-sik with his teammates after the Six-Legged Pentathlon.Yong-sik looking at the voting screen just before voting O.Yong-sik pressing the O.Yong-sik cheering for one more game.Yong-sik talking with Geum-ja after the vote.Yong-sik with his teammates after the vote.Yong-sik walking to the third game.Yong-sik looking around the Mingle arena.Yong-sik on the platform before round one.Yong-sik in round one of Mingle.Yong-sik as the platform stops spinning.Yong-sik looking at Seon-nyeo.Yong-sik leaving Seon-nyeo.Geum-ja and Yong-sik in Mingle.Park Yong-sik getting dragged by players 172 and 220.Ditto but a gif.Yong-sik looking at his mom after being separated.Ditto, closer, shaky breath.Yong-sik crying and apologizing in his mothers arms.Yong-sik with Geum-ja before round four of Mingle.Yong-sik in round four of Mingle, saying he's staying with his mum.Yong-sik's reaction to Young-mi's death.Geum-ja and Yong-sik running towards a room in the final round of Mingle.Yong-sik walking back to the dormitory after Mingle.Yong-sik in the dormitory after Mingle.Yong-sik watching Player 015 go up to vote.Yong-sik tearing off his O patch with pride.Yong-sik raising his X patch with pride.Yong-sik trying to convince the O players to join his side.Yong-sik in the headcount.Yong-sik in his group's commune.Yong-sik, Jun-hee and Geum-ja in the Special GameYong-sik watching the rebels volunteer.Yong-sik deciding to volunteer.Yong-sik after being held back by Geum-ja.Ditto.Yong-sik, Geum-ja, and Jun-hee watching Hyun-ju leave the dorms.Yong-sik and the others watching Dae-ho return to the dorms.Yong-sik asking Dae-ho what happened.Yong-sik, Geum-ja, and Jun-hee helping Kang Dae-ho collect the ammunition.
Season 3
Yong-sik walking to Gi-hun's coffin.Yong-sik walking closer to the coffin.Yong-sik looking at Gi-hun inside the coffin.Yong-sik getting told to bring Gi-hun into a bed.Yong-sik as Seong Gi-hun wakes up.Yong-sik as Gi-hun begs to be killed.Yong-sik looking at Seong Gi-hun cuffed during the revote.Yong-sik's disappointment after Player 448 votes O.Yong-sik looking at Gi-hun after his violent crash out with Seon-nyeo.Yong-sik looking at Seong Gi-hun.Yong-sik looking at Hyun-ju.Yong-sik telling Hyun-ju it wasn't her fault for the rebellion.Yong-sik witnessing the corpses of the rebels.Yong-sik holding a blue ball.Yong-sik looking at Geum-ja as the nature of Hide and Seek is revealed.Yong-sik trying to convince his mother to swap teams with him in a promotional picture.Geum-ja telling Yong-sik he can do it.Yong-sik inside the labyrinthYong-sik entering the maze.Yong-sik hearing Player 310 be killed by Player 260.Yong-sik after being startled by Yeong-sam.Yong-sik entering a room.Yong-sik noticing Player 172.Yong-sik approaching Player 172.Yong-sik trying to keep his knife from being stollen.Yong-sik after Gi-min stabbed Player 172.Yong-sik breathing in relief after Gi-min saved his life.Yong-sik continuing his search.Ditto, promotional picture.Yong-sik noticing Player 009's corpse.Yong-sik crying.Yong-sik hearing screams in the distance.Yong-sik discovering Jun-hee Geum-ja and the baby in the exit room.Yong-sik telling Geum-ja to move.Geum-ja telling Yong-sik to kill her.Yong-sik yelling that he can't do it.Yong-sik throwing Geum-ja to the side to charge at Jun-hee.Yong-sik apologizing to Jun-hee.Yong-sik realizing he's been stabbed.Yong-sik realizing who stabbed him.Yong-sik collapsing.Yong-sik apologizing to Geum-ja.Yong-sik noticing the soldiers.Yong-sik being shot (off screen).Park Yong-sik's corpse at the start of "It's Not Your Fault."Yong-sik's body being turned over to be put in his coffin.
Promotional
Park Yong-sik and Jang Geum-ja.Season 3 promotional character poster.Yong-sik and Geum-ja in the season 3 poster.Yong-sik and Geum-ja in a season 2 poster.Yong--sik's icon in a poster.
Behind the scenes

References

↑  Under the traditional Korean age system, which was changed in June 2023, a year is added to a person's age after birth, meaning he would've been born in 1983. His birth year, as stated, is given under the international age system.

↑  DIY Profile

↑ The 37th Squid Game began directly after Seong Gi-hun met with the Front Man on October 31, with Hide and Seek occurring on November 5, as a day was skipped after the tiebreak vote.

↑ https://youtu.be/qbVkkBY5TaM?t=82

Season Two37th Squid GameMain Characters
001
007
120
149
222
230
333
388
390
456
Major Characters
044
047
095
100
124
125
196
226
246
256
380
Supporting Characters
004
006
009
015
016
043
050
066
072
096
145
172
178
189
192
197
198
206
220
254
283
285
313
324
336
343
348
353
394
400
418
442
444
Minor Characters
031
039
045
067
080
084
135
140
165
185
188
199
202
203
209
216
237
238
239
249
257
260
263
270
286
306
308
328
331
350
355
371
384
395
401
415
416
435
448
453
454
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
Others
The Salesman
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Kang Eun-ji
Park Jung-bae
Ex-wifeM
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Chief Kim
Lee Ju-hong
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Mr. Kim
Choi Woo-seok
Lee Jang-uk
Hwang Jae-hun
Yun Jun-ho
Sea Captains
Sea Captain Park
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-wooN
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Hwang In-ho's wife
Kang Sae-byeokNP
Kang Sae-byeok's motherP
Kang Cheol
Park Mal-soon
Park Mi-yeong
Broker
Dentist
Season Three37th Squid GameMain Characters
007
120
124
125
149
222B
246PG
333
388
456
Major Characters
039
044
096
100
203
226
306
336
353
Supporting Characters
006
009
172
192
197
202
230H
232
235
260
349
377
380H
390C
394
400
411
418
442
447
Minor Characters
024
028
047C
048
080
084
105
119
134
145
154
163
191
209
241
276
296
310
312
334
344
350
359
435
440
443
448
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Kim Jung-ho
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
VIPs
Richard
Jennifer
John
Jack
Kevin
Others
Waiters
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Choi Woo-seok
Kim Mu-dong
Sea Captains
Park Yeong-gil
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Kang Sae-byeokH
Kang Sae-byeok's mother
Kang Cheol
Oh Il-namF
Park Man-cheol