Title: 020 (33rd Squid Game)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/020_(33rd_Squid_Game)
--------------------------------------------------
This player's actor has not been identified.


You can help the Squid Game Wiki by finding this actor!




Player 020






Name
Unknown


Aliases
Player 020 (33rd Squid Game)


Affiliation
Squid Games33rd Squid Game


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
June 9-10, 2020Red Light, Green Light


Cause of death
Shot by a sniper after he ran towards the doors



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Black


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Jeong Sin-ho (icon; error)An unknown extra





Only appearance




"Red Light, Green Light"







Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 019
Player 021







Player 020 was a participant in the 33rd Squid Game.

Contents

1 History

1.1 Fate


2 Behind the scenes
3 Appearences
4 Mistakes
5 Gallery


History[]
Player 020 suffered a severe amount of debt, unable to pay it off. He was then approached by a man in a suit, who offered him to play Ddakji. And if he won, he would recieve a handsome cash prize of 100k won. He fails and get slapped repeatedly a lot of times, but eventually win and recieves their money. After that, he was given a strange business card with a phone number on it with the specific date to contact it and a location. After dialing the number at the specified time and location, a van then picked him up. He entered the van, saw the rest of the unconscious players, and were knocked out by an unknown gas. He then woke up in a large dormitory with 455 other players. Confused, he woke up from his bed and witnessed the fight between Kang Sae-byeok and Jang Deok-su from afar. When the Pink Guards stepped in and stopped the fight, the TV shows multiple players being slapped. Convinced that Player 020 will recieve the prize money, he signed the contract, had his photo taken and then proceeded to the first game; Red Light, Green Light. He was confused, and the arena was massive. But as the instructions were spoken by the announcer, he understood it clearly and made a bit of progess in the 1st game before the chaos erupted.

Fate[]
Following by the death of Player 306, a massive genocide began to emerge. With multiple players panicking and attempting to escape, Player 020 was one of those players who attempted to run. Unfortunately, he was shot early in the intial chaos, as we can see his icon blacked out early. We can see his body as well in the scene displaying the aftermath of the genocide.

Behind the scenes[]
Player 020 was portrayed by an unknown extra and Jeong Sin-ho in his icon. Despite his icon never being seen, it's confirmed through specific patterns that this will be his icon.

Appearences[]
Season One
"Red Light, Green Light"
Mistakes[]
Another Player 020 is seen in Red Light, Green Light.
Player 020's icon is the same as Player 163 & Player 291's icons.
Gallery[]
Player 020 in the dormitory.Ditto.Ditto.Player 020 sitting on his bed, as seen in a Promotional image.Ditto, but in BTS.Player 020 listening to the staff.Player 020 listening to Cho Sang-woo.Player 020's corpse.