Title: 044 (37th Squid Game)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/044_(37th_Squid_Game)
--------------------------------------------------
Seon-nyeo






Name
Seon-nyeo


Aliases
Player 044 (37th Squid Game)Nam-gyu (hallucination)Player 380 (hallucination) Yong-kung Seon-nyeoShaman of the SeaShaman of the Dragon (Spanish dub)


Family
Unnamed mother


Relationships
AlliesPark Mi-hwa † (best friend and believer/savior/indirect victim)Player 306 † (savior/believer, attempted indirect victim)Player 009 † (believer, attempted indirect victim)Player 447 † (believer/indirect victim)NeutralPlayer 220 † (teammate in second round in Mingle)Kim Jun-hee † (teammate in the first round of Mingle)Kang Dae-ho † (teammate in the first round of Mingle; indirect victim)Hwang In-ho (teammate in the first round of Mingle)Park Jung-bae † (teammate in the first round of Mingle)Park Min-su † (accidental killer)EnemiesCho Hyun-ju † (arch-rival; teammate in the Six-Legged Pentathlon and in the first round of Mingle)Jang Geum-ja † (teammate in the Six-Legged Pentathlon and in the first round of Mingle)Park Yong-sik † (teammate in the Six-Legged Pentathlon and in the first round of Mingle)Kim Young-mi † (teammate in the Six-Legged Pentathlon and in the first round of Mingle)Park Gyeong-seok (after Mingle)Seong Gi-hun † (teammate in the first round of Mingle, arch-enemy, attempted killer)Nam-gyu † (attempted killer)Lee Myung-gi † (attempted killer)Im Jeong-dae † (former ally, indirect killer)


Affiliation
Squid Games37th Squid GameTeam OTeam 4 (formerly)Her cult (leader)Hiders


Occupation
Shaman


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
November 5, 2024[1]Hide and Seek


Cause of death
Stabbed twice with a hunting knife by Park Min-su after mistaking her for Nam-gyu due to hallucination.



Physical Description

Gender
Female


Eye color
Brown


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Chae Kook-hee





First appearance
Last appearance




"001"
"It's Not Your Fault" (corpse)







Voting




Round 1
Round 2
Round 3















Round 3 Tie











This is all useless. There's no point. Just as you didn't get to choose when you entered this world, you don't get to pick when you're going to leave it. The time and place of each one of your deaths was decided from the instant you were born. There's no changing it now. No matter how hard you try to fight it, you'll never be able to escape your fate.
Seon-nyeo to the players in "001"

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 043
Player 045







Seon-nyeo (선녀 Seon-nyeo?), also known as Player 044, was a participant in the 37th Squid Game. She was a Korean shaman who made unsettling prophecies throughout the games.
She was recruited in Cho Hyun-ju's team during the second game and helped them successfully pass. When they abandoned her later on in the competition, Seon-nyeo turned against them and formed a cult-like faction of players who followed her.

Contents

1 Personality
2 History

2.1 Fate


3 Kill count
4 Trivia
5 Quotes
6 Behind the scenes
7 Appearances
8 Gallery

8.1 Season 2
8.2 Season 3
8.3 Promotional


9 References


Personality
Player 456. I sense you're holding on to a great many things. You feel frozen, unable to leave or stay. There's no use trying to fight it. Your fate is decided. I see the wandering souls trapped with you unable to rest in death. You didn't come here of your own volition. Those vengeful souls dragged you here. You have bad karma, but I can help with that. As soon as we get out of here I can cleanse you with a gut ritual.
Seon-nyeo to Seong Gi-hun in "001"
Seon-nyeo is an arrogant and selfish woman who only cares about herself, even being quick to abandon her followers to die so she can save her own skin, showing that she's also a coward. She firmly believes her Shaman views and claims to be an all-seeing individual chosen by the Gods.
Seon-nyeo is also ungrateful, since she let her followers to be slaughtered by Nam-gyu and Lee Myung-gi, despite being saved by them when Gi-hun was about to strangle her.
Despite the misfortunes that led her to the Squid Games in 2024, Seon-nyeo is an unpleasant and extremely arrogant woman with an inflated ego—shaped by her past as a renowned shaman. She is selfish, outspoken, and often overwhelmed by anxiety, which causes her to lash out at others unpredictably.
Seon-nyeo has a keen ability to read people, having correctly deduced that Seong Gi-hun had previously played and won the Squid Game upon their first meeting. However, she is also quick to judge and abandon others. During the third game, Mingle, when the number four was announced, Hyun-ju, Yong-sik, Geum-ja, and Young-mi deliberately excluded her from their team due to her rudeness and irritating behavior. Left alone, Seon-nyeo ominously stared at Young-mi—who would later die in a subsequent round—hinting at her eerie ability to foresee or curse the fate of others.
Despite her flaws, her loyalty—when it exists—can be manipulative and strategic. Her alliance with Player 006, Park Mi-hwa, proved pivotal when Mi-hwa became the only player to change her vote from “X” to “O” in the third vote. This caused a split vote that ultimately led to the infamous bathroom and Special Game bloodshed.
Seon-nyeo is also deeply religious, believing that gods control the fate of every human. She often prays to deities and likely sees herself as superior due to her perceived connection to higher powers.

History
Prior to the games, Seon-nyeo was supposedly a shaman. In 2024, she somehow lost a large amount of money and entered the Squid Games to pay off her debt. Prior to the first game, she took notice of Seong Gi-hun and approached him as she revealed a bit of her shaman skills. She brought up how his fate is sealed and that there are many vengeful souls cursing him with bad karma. 
She survived the first game, Red Light, Green Light staying behind Im Jeong-dae and awaited on the very top of her preferred bunk bed. She voted to continue the games. The next challenge was Six-Legged Pentathlon and players needed to pair themselves in a team of 5. Park Yong-sik, Jang Geum-ja, Kim Young-mi, and Cho Hyun-ju walked toward each other and they form a team. Since they were down a member, Seon-nyeo seized the opportunity to insert herself to the group. She approaches them with arrogance by calling them fools as she claims they should had come looking for her instead of her finding them. Their team started second after both teams of the first round failed to complete all 5 games. Seon-nyeo's group were eased by the first games until it was Seon-nyeo's turn in the 4th game "Paengi". She took notice of the blood on the ground and she started to get nervous. She struggled to wrap the rope on the spinning top. Her teammates tried to comfort her but that caused her to snap more. After a few failed attempts, she lost her composure as she started to mumble her prayers. Cho Hyun-ju noticed their team was running out of time. Hyun-ju slapped Seon-nyeo a couple of times and took the spinning top and threatened to kill her if she gave up. Hyun-ju’s intimidation managed to convince her to focus again. Once Seon-nyeo regained her composure, she got the spinning top to spin, resulting in a pass. Their team with a few seconds remaining were able to cross the finish line. The whole room celebrated their victory. 
The surviving players were sent back to the Dormitory where Seon-nyeo went back to her usual spot on the top bed. When the vote took place, she did a prayer to guide her decision to vote. Some players in back told her to hurry up while she responded to them to shut up. She voted to continue the games. 
In Mingle, she stayed close to her former Six-legged pentathlon team. However, one of the rounds required 4 people. Her team left her behind to an open door. She managed to find Park Mi-hwa and two others to survive that round of Mingle. When the remaining players went back to the stage, Seon-nyeo stared at her former teammates for betraying her and gave a devious glare at them. The final round of mingle required two people and she paired with Park Mi-hwa to find an open door, They both survived Mingle and formed an alliance. This alliance convinced Park Mi-hwa to switch her vote from "X" to "O" to continue the games. Seon-nyeo did not participate in the special game or Gi-hun's rebellion.  
In the re-vote, she voted “O” to continue the games. Before the fourth game and after Im Jeong-dae's team harassed him, she mocks Gi-hun, telling him that he will be able to hear the screams of his dead allies for the rest of his life, cackling. In response, Gi-hun suddenly lunges at Seon-nyeo, grabbing her by the neck in an attempt to strangle her. Mi-hwa and 306 quickly come to Seon-nyeo's rescue and pulled her out of his reach. The encounter leaves her visibly shaken.  
In Hide and Seek, she was assigned to the Blue Team, which had to find keys to either hide or escape. Seon-nyeo, along with her followers - Park Mi-hwa, Player 306, Player 009 and Player 447 searched for an exit. When she stumbled upon a door, she decided to open it, hoping to find the exit, but on the other side of the door she saw Nam-gyu and Lee Myung-gi ready to ambush. She decided to quickly flee, leaving her followers and leading to the deaths of both Mi-hwa and Player 447. Now alone, she accidentally encountered Seong Gi-hun and told him she knows where Player 388 is, realising that's who he has been searching for, after which Seon-nyeo is let go. After she encountered a hallucinating Min-su, she fled into a room which turned out to be the exit room. However, she soon realised that she would need all 3 keys to enter. Therefore, she went in search for keys among dead players, including Player 009, one of her followers that escaped the ambush. She then encountered Im Jeong-dae who was playing dead, after being startled by realising that he was alive, she convinced him to help her use all three keys to open the exit. However, he betrayed her—pushing her away from the exit door and taking a key, trapping her inside.

Fate
      
How dare you... Who do you think I...
Seon-nyeo last words to Park Min-su after being stabbed in stomach twice. 
Soon after she was betrayed by Im Jeong-dae, she encounters Min-su again during one of his hallucinations. Trying to scare him, she says that he "should have become a ghost a long time about, but [he] lived by leeching off others" (referring to Se-mi), insulting him for that. Mistaking her for Nam-gyu, who had also previously insulted him, Min-su stabbed Seon-nyeo, killing her.

Kill count
Caused killsIndirect kills


Character

Information

Image/GIF


"The Starry Night"Hide and Seek


Park Mi-hwa(Player 006)

Left her behind, causing her to be killed by Nam-gyu




Player 447

Left him behind, causing him to be killed by Myung-gi




Kang Dae-ho(Player 388)

Pointed Seong Gi-hun in his direction, causing him to be killed.

https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/File:044IndirectKill388.mp3



Character

Information

Image/GIF


"The Starry Night"Hide and Seek


Player 009

Left her behind, causing her to be killed by an Unknown Seeker.




Herself

Indirectly caused by yelling at Min-su, making him hallucinate Nam-gyu which led to her death.



Trivia
Seon-nyeo (From Chinese:"仙女") is Korean for "fairy" (specifically female) in Sino-Korean folklore.
After the second round of Mingle when she's betrayed, she evilly stares at Young-mi. Since Young-mi died shortly after, some fans speculate that Seon-nyeo already knew her fate.
She is similar to Player 244 from the first season of Squid Game, she was also praying to gods and became someone's minion. However, Player 244 is notably not as manipulative or insane as her. Both of their numbers end with 44 (X44).
In the Six-Legged Pentathlon, most of the antagonists played Paengi, namely Seon-nyeo, Kim Yeong-sam, Nam-gyu, Hwang In-ho.
Seon-nyeo had indeed correctly predicted multiple elements of people's deaths.
She stated to Cho Hyun-ju's team that they would all die facing each other. Cho Hyun-ju and Park Yong-sik were eliminated while facing the other members of their group, and Kim Jun-hee committed suicide while facing Seong Gi-hun, who was allied with her.
She told Seong Gi-hun that he wasn't destined to leave the Squid Games.
After being locked out by Im Jeong-dae, she called on the gods break his skull, shatter his spine and pulverize all his organs. This all occurred when he was eliminated by Lee Myung-gi in Sky Squid Game.
The reason of why Seon-nyeo took a long time wrapping the string on Spinning Top was because (apart from the pressure and hurry) she didn't tighten the string at all until her last try.
Seon-nyeo seems to be left-handed (similar to Hwang In-ho), since she votes using her left-hand, and also during Paengi, she uses her left hand to both wrap the string and throw the spin-top.
Not only that, but she was also wrapping the string counter-clockwise, wich is the way left-handed people wrap the string on spin-tops so they can throw it with their left hand (which was also what Hwang In-ho did on his last attempt).
In the Round 1 in Mingle, she went to room 44 which is her number.
She was the first person who approached and spoke to Gi-hun before the start of the games.
She is the only Hider to die while not wearing her key (not to be confused with the key being removed after death).
She is the only one of the main character players in season three to not have either her elimination announced, or her icons be seen fading out.
When taking herself and Jeong-dae to the exit, they actually go down the hall that contains the other exit, as well as the marine room with Hyun-ju, Geum-ja, Jun-hee.
Since Seon-nyeo placed 37th in the competition, her 33rd Squid Game counterpart is Player 130.
She is the only player to be enemies with all of her pentathlon team mates.
She was counted 47th in the Team O headcount, and was last to be counted overall. This is because she wasn't at the floor during the head count like the others, she was to only one to stay at her bed.
She is the last female player confirmed to have played Paengi for the pentathlon.
Myung-gi is indirectly responsible for her death since if he had let Nam-gyu kill Jeong-dae, Seon-nyeo could have taken the third key from Jeong-dae’s corpse easily and escaped. However Myung-gi later eliminated Jeong-dae himself.
Both of her followers have X06 numbers. (006 and 306).
She is the only hider who ended up causing her own death by insulting Min-su, since he didn't really intend to kill her.
In Mingle Round 1, she looked at Jun-hee's belly and after on Gi-hun, saying there is a reason he is still alive, predicting he is going to save Kim Jun-hee's baby
Quotes
You insolent fools! How dare you! You should've sought me out first thing. But instead I had to come to you? How insulting.
Seon-nyeo to what would become her pentathlon team in "Six Legs"I'm Seon-nyeo. Shaman of the sea.
Seon-nyeo introducing herself to her teamates. in "Six Legs"The gods of heaven and earth have abandoned us. They've abandoned us. Am I really going to die here? We're all going to die-!
Seon-nyeo just before getting slapped across her face by Cho Hyun-ju in "One More Game"You've lived longer than you were ever meant to, and now I finally see why? You're here for a reason, you were drawn by destiny.
Seon-nyeo to Seong Gi-hun after noticing Kim Jun-hee's pregnancy  in "O X"Oh, you poor fool. What did I tell you? You're not here of your own volition, are you? It was the vengeful souls hovering over you that dragged you here. Do you hear that? It's the sound of your little friends screaming into yours ears from the dead. Ah, but can cover them all you want, but it won't stop the noise. You can only hear them scream louder each day. And you... You're going to hear them from now until the day that you die.
Seon-nyeo to taunting Seong Gi-hun after the revote and failed revolt in "Keys and Knives"None of you can get out of here alive. Only I, shaman of the sea, can guide you to the path of life. I can see all the paths in  that place from here. It is not with my eyes I see! The gods of heaven and earth are leading by the hand. Those who follow me shall continue to live. Anyone that gets in my way shall die!
Seon-nyeo to Park Mi-hwa, Player 306, Player 009, and Player 447, before Hide and Seek. in "Keys and Knives"Shush! I don't rely on my eyes to see the way. I follow the voices of the souls who died in here. Either follow me quietly, or get lost if your faith is lacked in me!
Seon-nyeo to her followers during Hide and Seek in "The Starry Night"No! You goddam bastard! You shall be cooked in the fires of hell! The gods of heaven and earth will smash your skull, shatter your spine, and pulverize your organs! 
Seon-nyeo after being locked out of the exit by Im Jeong-dae in "The Starry Night"
Behind the scenes
Seon-nyeo was portrayed by Chae Kook-hee. In the English dub, she is voiced by Leilani Smith, and French dub, she is voiced by Magali Barney.

Appearances
Season Two
"001"
"Six Legs"
"One More Game"
"O X"
"Friend or Foe"
Season Three
"Keys and Knives"
"The Starry Night"
"It's Not Your Fault" (corpse)
Gallery
Season 2
Seon-nyeo's icon.Seon-nyeo looking over at Gi-hun.Ditto in bts.Seon-nyeo watching the guards come in.Seon-nyeo smiles for the photo in the stair roomSeon-nyeo after the mass panic.Seon-nyeo infront of Kim Yeong-sam in Red Light, Green Light.Seon-nyeo on top bunk.Seon-nyeo 'foretelling' Gi-hun's fate.Seon-nyeo voting O for the first time.Seon-nyeo after In-ho defeats Thanos.Seon-nyeo approaching what would become her pentathlon team.Seon-nyeo in a promotional picture during the pentathlon, telling Yong-sik off.Seon-nyeo frightened after the first two teams are gunned down.Ditto.Seon-nyeo's team preparing for the pentathlon.Seon-nyeo praying to the gods of heaven and earth just before the game.Seon-nyeo being thrown forward.Seon-nyeo's team heading towards the first minigame.Seon-nyeo being shushed by Hyun-ju during Gong-gi.Ditto.Seon-nyeo staring at the blood of the previous team.Seon-nyeo fumbling Paengi.Seon-nyeo getting slapped by Hyun-ju after she nearly gives up during six-legged pentathlon.Seon-nyeo after completing Paengi.Seon-nyeo and her team about to cross the finish line in Six-Legged Pentathlon game.Seon-nyeo after passing the game.Seon-nyeo watching the guards enter.Seon-nyeo in the second vote.Seon-nyeo looking up at the piggy bank.Seon-nyeo being grabbed by Hyun-ju in the first round of Mingle.Seon-nyeo yelling at everyone in the first round of Mingle.Ditto.Second Angle of Seon-nyeo on the platform in Mingle.Seon-nyeo after being abandoned by her teammates.Seon-nyeo and her teammates in after the second round.Seon-nyeo staring at Hyun-ju's team.Ditto.Seon-nyeo's icon during Mingle.Seon-nyeo on the carousel with Mi-hwa before the final round of Mingle.Seon-nyeo running with Park Mi-hwa during the final round of Mingle.Seon-nyeo with her group after Mingle.Seon-nyeo after mocking Hyun-ju.Seon-nyeo nodding at Mi-hwa after she switches her vote.Seon-nyeo in the headcount.Seon-nyeo waking up hearing the screams of Player 185 at the start of the Special GameSeon-nyeo after surviving Special Game.
Season 3
Seon-nyeo laughing at Gi-hun before being chocked.Seon-nyeo being chocked.Seon-nyeo after being chocked.Seon-nyeo with her blue ball.Seon-nyeo looking at Mi-hwa as the red team's role is announced.Seon-nyeo in a Season 3's promotional photo.Seon-nyeo preaching to her group.Ditto.Seon-nyeo entering Hide and Seek.Ditto, with other hiders.Seon-nyeo guiding herself and her followers to the exit.Ditto, gif.Seon-nyeo abandoning her followers.Seon-nyeo panicking, lost in the maze.Seon-nyeo leading Gi-hun away from her.Ditto, promotional picture.Seon-nyeo looking at Park Min-su as he asks about Se-mi.Seon-nyeo realizing what she's found.Seon-nyeo rejoicing after finding the exit.Seon-nyeo realizing she can't escape.Seon-nyeo checking Player 009's body and using her blood.Seon-nyeo after being startled by Jeong-dae.Seon-nyeo leading Jeong-dae to the exit (while passing the other exit).Seon-nyeo after opening the exit.Seon-nyeo after being thrown to the ground.Seon-nyeo banging on the exit door.Seon-nyeo insulting Min-su.Seon-nyeo after Min-su's attack.Seon-nyeo getting stabbed.Seon-nyeo being slammed against the wall.Seon-nyeo's death.Seon nyeo's corpse being placed in a coffin in It's Not Your Fault.
Promotional
Seon-nyeo in her promotional video.Ditto.Seon-nyeo in a Season 3's promotional photo.Seon-nyeo looking at Gi-hun.Seon-nyeo in Another Season 3 promotional picture.Seon-nyeo in a season 3 poster.Seon-nyeo in a poster.
References

↑ The 37th Squid Game began directly after Seong Gi-hun met with the Front Man on October 31, with Hide and Seek occurring on November 5, as a day was skipped after the tiebreak vote.

Season Two37th Squid GameMain Characters
001
007
120
149
222
230
333
388
390
456
Major Characters
044
047
095
100
124
125
196
226
246
256
380
Supporting Characters
004
006
009
015
016
043
050
066
072
096
145
172
178
189
192
197
198
206
220
254
283
285
313
324
336
343
348
353
394
400
418
442
444
Minor Characters
031
039
045
067
080
084
135
140
165
185
188
199
202
203
209
216
237
238
239
249
257
260
263
270
286
306
308
328
331
350
355
371
384
395
401
415
416
435
448
453
454
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
Others
The Salesman
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Kang Eun-ji
Park Jung-bae
Ex-wifeM
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Chief Kim
Lee Ju-hong
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Mr. Kim
Choi Woo-seok
Lee Jang-uk
Hwang Jae-hun
Yun Jun-ho
Sea Captains
Sea Captain Park
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-wooN
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Hwang In-ho's wife
Kang Sae-byeokNP
Kang Sae-byeok's motherP
Kang Cheol
Park Mal-soon
Park Mi-yeong
Broker
Dentist
Season Three37th Squid GameMain Characters
007
120
124
125
149
222B
246PG
333
388
456
Major Characters
039
044
096
100
203
226
306
336
353
Supporting Characters
006
009
172
192
197
202
230H
232
235
260
349
377
380H
390C
394
400
411
418
442
447
Minor Characters
024
028
047C
048
080
084
105
119
134
145
154
163
191
209
241
276
296
310
312
334
344
350
359
435
440
443
448
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Kim Jung-ho
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
VIPs
Richard
Jennifer
John
Jack
Kevin
Others
Waiters
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Choi Woo-seok
Kim Mu-dong
Sea Captains
Park Yeong-gil
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Kang Sae-byeokH
Kang Sae-byeok's mother
Kang Cheol
Oh Il-namF
Park Man-cheol