Title: 120 (37th Squid Game)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/120_(37th_Squid_Game)
--------------------------------------------------
Cho Hyun-ju






Name
Cho Hyun-ju


Aliases
Player 120 (37th Squid Game)Unnie (언니 Eonni?) (by Kim Young-mi)


Family
Unnamed parents


Relationships
AlliesKim Young-mi † (best friend, younger sister figure)Jang Geum-ja † (close friend, protected)Kim Jun-hee † (close friend, protected)Park Gyeong-seok (savior, close friend)Park Yong-sik † (friend)Seong Gi-hun † (leader, friend, avenger)Park Jung-bae † (ally)Kwon Byeong-su † (ally)Player 145 † (ally)Kim Jun-hee's baby (protected)NeutralUnknown Friends (mentioned; formerly)Kim Nam-du † (attempted protector)Player 206 † (ally in Rebellion)Player 072 † (ally in Rebellion)Player 324 † (ally in Rebellion)Player 015 † (ally in Rebellion)Kang Dae-ho † (ally and indirect savior; distant after revolt)Lee Myung-gi † (savior in Mingle, killer)Nam-gyu † (indirect killer and indirect enemy)Player 051 † (indirect victim in Mingle)Player 012 † (indirect victim in Mingle)Player 395 † (attempted teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 286 † (attempted teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 341 † (attempted teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 045 † (attempted teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 039 † (threatened)EnemiesSeon-nyeo † (former ally and teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon, enemy throughout the games)Kim Yeong-sam † (victim)Choi Hyuk † (victim)Player 202 † (attempted killer, victim; indirect killer)Pink GuardsManagersSoldiersHwang In-ho (false ally and traitor after the Revolt, teammate during Mingle, enemy)


Affiliation
Republic of Korea Army (formerly)Squid Games37th Squid GameTeam O (formerly)Team XHer teamSeong Gi-hun's teamHiders


Occupation
Republic of Korea Army Special Forces sergeant (formerly)


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
November 5, 2024[1]Hide and Seek


Cause of death
Stabbed twice in the back with a hunting knife by Lee Myung-gi.



Physical Description

Gender
Female


Eye color
Brown


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Park Sung-hoonLim Tae-hoon (stunt double)





First appearance
Last appearance




"001"
"222" (mentioned)







Voting




Round 1
Round 2
Round 3















Round 3 Tie











Everything was fine before I told everyone who I really was. Sure, some people thought I was a bit strange, but I never had too many issues. But then... as soon as I said I was living as a woman now, and started my transition, everything was different. Mom was always crying. My dad cut off all contact. I was let go from my job. My friends stopped calling. And I still needed treatment and surgeries. But now I was out of work. My debt started to grow. I finally felt like myself, but life... life got a whole lot harder.
Cho Hyun-ju sharing her backstory in "One More Game"

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 119
Player 121







Cho Hyun-ju (조현주 Jo Hyeon-ju?), also known as Player 120, was a participant in the 37th Squid Game. She appeared prominently in Season 2 and Season 3.
Hyun-ju was a soldier in the Special Forces who ended up in debt after she began open living as a transgender woman. She joined the games so that she could win enough money to finish transitioning.
During the games, Hyun-ju formed alliances with several players, becoming a part of a team alongside Jang Geum-ja, Park Yong-sik, and Kim Young-mi during the second game. She eventually joined Seong Gi-hun's wider alliance and participated in a rebellion in an attempt to escape the games.

Contents

1 Personality
2 History

2.1 Early Life
2.2 2024
2.3 Fate
2.4 Legacy


3 Kill count
4 Relationships

4.1 Park Gyeong-seok
4.2 Kim Young-mi
4.3 Jang Geum-ja


5 Trivia
6 Behind the scenes
7 Appearances
8 Gallery

8.1 Season 2
8.2 Season 3
8.3 Promotional
8.4 Merchandise
8.5 Lim Tae-hoon (Stunt Double)


9 References


Personality
Listen. From the very second you asked to play together, I believed in you. I could feel you were very brave, Young-mi. Now I need you, to believe in yourself the same as I do. Can you do that?
Hyun-ju encouraging Young-mi to believe in herself. Hyun-ju has shown to be kind, caring and hospitable towards most players she has crossed paths with. She is loyal, brave and protective to towards the close friends she makes during the games. Examples include such as when she risked her own life to help a man with Gi-hun during Red Light, Green Light. As someone with a military infantry background, she is extremely disciplined and skilled in combat and isn’t afraid to fight or threaten those who are threats to others she cares about or herself, like against Kim Yeong-sam and Player 202 in the Hide and Seek game, as well as in the failed rebellion she contributed to and participated in. Despite this, she appears to be shy and unconfident in herself, likely due to the fact her life took a downturn upon transitioning.  Through her resilience, she seeks to break down stereotypes.
History
Early Life
Not much is spoken of Hyun-ju's early years and pre-transition, outside of how much support she got from her family and friends. Growing up, Hyun-ju often played games such as ddakji, which she was particularly good at. As an adult, Hyun-ju joined the army and rose through the ranks to become a staff sergeant. Though, Park Sung-hoon and Hwang Dong-hyuk have given a bit more information. She never really felt correct around others, and she thought that if she joined the army, it would help her step into a manly Cho Hyun-jun, but it didn't fix her problems, rather only excepting who she was, and becoming Cho Hyun-ju. 
When Hyun-ju began her transition as a woman, she was abruptly fired from her job and ostracized by her family and friends. With no steady income or social support, Hyun-ju started going into debt. She continued her transition and began developing trust issues. At some point, she moved out to Gwangmyeong.

2024
Excuse me. If we're just playing games here, then why'd you basically kidnap us? How can we trust you now?
Hyun-ju asking the guards before the start of the games With her debt standing at ₩330 million, Hyun-ju decided to participate in the Squid Games, with the ultimate goal of winning enough Prize money to move to Thailand and finish getting the surgeries which would complete her transition.
After waking up in the Squid Game dormitory, Hyun-ju is one of many players who raises questions the staff. Her name and debt amount are read aloud and footage of her playing Ddakji is shown to the assembled players.
Hyun-ju is seen as the photo booth prior to the first game. Not far away, she is judged by Jang Geum-ja who wonders about her choice of transition. During Gi-hun’s warnings of the game's sadistic nature, Hyun-ju can be seen among the few listening to him rather than mock him. After the deaths of Kang Mi-na and Lee Eun-ju and the begining of the scare, Hyun-ju appears shaken, but manages to keep it together, later on, she manages to pass the finish line. After Kim Nam-du gets shot in the leg, she went back to help Gi-hun in carrying him to safety; she then succeeds the first game. However, the given prize not being enough, and Hyun-ju votes to keep going.
Before Six-Legged Pentathlon begins, Hyun-ju is one of the few unable to find a team of five, with said teams either full or players judging her. While searching further, she encounters the nervous Kim Young-mi, who wants to team up with her. She accepts and soon is joined by Park Yong-sik, Jang Geum-ja, and Seon-nyeo. As the game begins, she is able to give Young-mi confidence, helping her pass ddakji by advising her to throw with the thicker side down.

     Cho Hyun-ju threatens to kill Seon-nyeo before her gods do  
During the Six Legs, Hyun-ju spends most of her watching time stopping Seon-nyeo from disturbing the others. As Seon-nyeo is unable to complete Paengi Chigi, she then has one of her religious-themed breakdowns. This causes Hyun-ju to snap, slapping Seon-nyeo hard twice - enough to make her nose bleed - and threatening to "kill her before her gods do". Seon-nyeo then succeeds in her game. Before Hyun-ju kicks the jegi, she reveals her shy personality and underlying gender dysphoria by requesting no one to look. They oblige, and she succeeds, causing the team to win the game.

If you give up now, I'll kill you before your damn gods can.
Hyun-ju encouraging Seon-nyeo to keep trying after failing Spinning Top Hey. What's going on? Is she sick?
Hyun-ju asking Geum-ja about Jun-hee in the bathroom.      Cho Hyun-ju (right) with her teammates and new friends  
Hyun-ju becomes an official team with Geum-ja, Yong-sik, and Young-mi, spending time with them after the game. They share details of their lives, although Hyun-ju is reluctant, and Young-mi begins referring to her as 'Unnie'. Geum-ja invites Young-mi and Hyun-ju to her and Yong-sik's house to eat, and despite initially not answering, Hyun-ju accepts. During the vote, Hyun-ju decides to keep going once more, causing friction between her and her team, especially Young-mi, who breaks down crying during the vote and emotionally begs the crowd to let her leave. This visibly moves Hyun-ju. After the vote, Geum-ja questions Hyun-ju about her decision. She then emotionally confesses her backstory and goals; before her transition, Hyun-ju was confident, well-surrounded, and a strong sergeant in the army, which she all lost upon transitioning, making her life more challenging, alongside accumulating debts. She then reveals her wish to gain enough money which will be enough to move to Thailand and live a new and comfortable life among the LGBTQ+ community. Young-mi calls her beautiful, causing Hyun-ju to become emotional, and Geum-ja is more accepting to her transition. Later on, during the night, she decides to accompany Kim Jun-hee and Geum-ja to the bathroom, where Geum-ja states she can, as she is also a woman, and she calls herself down in the mirror. Soon after, she helplessly watches a scared Jun-hee break down sobbing for fear of her and her baby's lives. Later in the morning, she joins her team for the next game, Mingle, and whilst walking there pulls Young-mi aside to apologize for voting "O". Young-mi happily forgives her and says they will escape after the next game.
During the first round of Mingle, Hyun-ju saves Seon-nyeo from death by taking her into a safe room, only to witness the latter's another religious breakdown. On the second round, she survives by joining her team and abandoning Seon-nyeo, who subsequently turns on her former teammates. She survives the third round off-screen after Park Gyeong-seok saves her and Young-mi. However, on the fourth round, despite finding a room for her team, Young-mi is tripped by another player. In an attempt to save her, Hyun-ju rushes outside with mere seconds left, but her life is saved when Lee Myung-gi enters with her. A scared Young-mi pleads Hyun-ju to open the door to no avail, and she witnesses her friend being shot dead in front of her. Devastated, Hyun-ju lashes out on Myung-gi, until the latter scolds the group that he saved their lives, with Jun-hee and Dae-ho reluctantly defending him. In the fifth and final round, a distraught Hyun-ju is able to survive due to the intervention of Gyeong-seok. Back in the dorms, Gyeong-seok joins her group, while Seon-nyeo threatens Hyun-ju, stating she will join Young-mi soon. During the vote, Hyun-ju changes her vote out of respect for Young-mi and decides to leave the games. She is later comforted by Geum-ja.

     Cho Hyun-ju teaching the revolt group how to use the MP5 submachine gun  
In the aftermath of the bathroom brawl, Gi-hun decides to launch a revolt against the staff in hopes of confronting the Front Man. Hyun-ju, being in the "X" Camp, agrees. During the dorm massacre, Hyun-ju does as told and hides behind a bed with Gyeong-seok until the lights come back on. Faking death, she pounces and picks off a weapon from a pink soldier which she uses to kill the other staff, showcasing her sharp military expertise. After teaching the other players how to use the weapons they took, she explains to a curious Gyeong-seok that she was in the special forces. She accompanies Gi-hun as they advance to find the Front Man, tasking everyone to gather the most ammunition possible, and she is able to destroy the cameras. As they begin the revolt, she becomes the leader and is able to easily kill most of the soldiers due to her immaculate accuracy. When the group approaches the Front Man's office, Hyun-ju and other members become stuck and begin to run out of ammo. After tasking Kang Dae-ho to return with ammunition, Hyun-ju returns to the dorm when he fails to come back to find him trembling. As she leaves, another group of pink guards intervene and immediately put an end to the rebellion. Hyun-ju prepares to shoot, but Geum-ja persuades her otherwise, to which she agrees.

    Hyun-ju looks back at Gi-hun who falls into hard depression.  


In Season 3, she saw guards bringing a coffin into the dormitory; after they laid down the coffin, Hyun-ju decided to check what's inside, only to receive a minor shock upon seeing Gi-hun inside. After realizing that he was still alive, she asked to put him in to bed to recover, in which Gi-hun later wakes up. Gi-hun asked as he looked around the dorm about the other rebels, to which Hyun-ju shakes her head, telling him they're all dead (except Gyeong-seok, although she had no way of knowing this), including Park Jung-bae.I'm sorry. I should've done more... to bring the ammo back to you.
Hyun-ju apologizing to Gi-hun for failing to bring the ammunition on time.      Hyun-ju apologizes to Gi-hun for failing to bring back the extra ammo to him.  She voted ''X'' once more during the re-vote, she was seen at the start when Player 448 unwillingly changed her vote to O she was seen looking down in disappointment at her cowardness. (with 41 Os to 18 Xs) The games were forced to continue. She then apologized to Gi-hun for not bringing back the magazines in time, but Yong-sik tells her it was Dae-ho's fault. For the fourth game, she drew a blue ball, putting her on the Blue Team for Hide and Seek. She decided to team up with Geum-ja and Jun-hee. Due to a stroke of luck, the three of them were holding all three differently shaped keys (a circle, triangle, and square, respectively), allowing them access towards any room. After Kim Yeong-sam found Hyun-ju with her allies, they were forced to flee for their lives. Jun-hee tripped and fell down the stairs whilst running away, badly injuring her ankle and allowing Yeong-sam to catch up to them. Hyun-ju defended Jun-hee and Geum-ja from Yeong-sam - who wanted her to step aside so he could kill either of the two behind Hyun-ju. After realizing that Hyun-ju was not going to budge, Yeong-sam attempted to attack Hyun-ju with his knife, but Hyun-ju swiftly disarmed him before killing him in defense.
After she found a room for them to hide, Hyun-ju assessed Jun-hee's injury, deciding that was most likely a fractured ankle. Moments later, Jun-hee's water broke and Geum-ja and Hyun-ju aided in giving birth to a baby girl. Soon after, Player 202 came in and - bewildered by the baby - spotted Hyun-ju's knife that she had taken from Yeong-sam. They then had a fight; Hyun-ju eventually managed to overpower and kill Player 202, though not before sustaining a wound to the leg in the process.

Fate
      
I found the exit. We can get out of here together. Come on, hurry.
Hyun-ju's final words before being stabbed in the back by Myung-gi in "The Starry Night"
     Hyun-ju's corpse  
Shortly afterwards, Hyun-ju found the exit which required all 3 different types of keys; after opening it to confirm that the door was an exit, she selflessly decided to bring the others with her (Jun-hee, her baby, and Geum-ja) instead of going through the door. She limped back to their room and excitedly reported finding an exit and that they should follow her, however before they could escape, Hyun-Ju was fatally stabbed in the back two times by Myung-gi, who, did not realise that it was her and that she was protecting Jun-hee, before she fell a tear ran down Hyun-ju's face possibly due to her not knowing who her killer was and possibly thinking they would go on to kill her two friends as well. This left Jun-hee and Geum-ja devastated at the loss of their dear friend. She placed 40th in the competition.

Legacy
Hyun-ju's murder permanently strains the relationship between Myung-gi and Jun-hee. In Jump Rope, Myung-gi (Jun-hee’s ex-boyfriend and her baby’s biological father) insists that he help her and says that he didn’t mean to kill a friend of hers, but she angrily responds that she wants nothing to do with “scum” like him. Jun-hee states: 'That person saved me and the baby.'

Kill count
Confirmed killsAttempted killsIndirect kills


Character

Information

Image/GIF


"Friend or Foe"Rebellion


5Soldiers

Shot in the head with a revolver.







Shot in the head with a submachine gun.










Choi Hyuk(Soldier 008)

Shot in the chest with a submachine gun.




2Soldiers




Shot in the head with a submachine gun.




"The Starry Night"Hide and Seek


Kim Yeong-sam(Player 226)

Stabbed in the heart with his own hunting knife in order to protect Jun-hee and Geum-ja.




Player 202

Stabbed in the chest thrice with his own hunting knife; self-defense.





Character

Information

Image/GIF


"O X"Mingle


Seon-nyeo(Player 044)

Indirectly attemped by abandoning her during the second round of Mingle; alongside Yong-sik, Young-mi and Geum-ja.




Herself

Attempted to stay on the platform in the final round after witnessing Kim Young-mi's death, until Park Gyeong-seok got her in a room with him.




"Friend or Foe"Rebellion


Soldiers

Planned to shoot them, but was stopped by Jang Geum-ja.







Character

Information

Image/GIF


"O X"Mingle


Player 051

Indirectly caused by stealing the room they attemped to enter, leading to their deaths; shared kills with Park Gyeong-seok.




Player 012

Relationships
Park Gyeong-seok
The two of them don't interact until Mingle, in which Gyeong-seok saves Hyun-ju two times from being eliminated. In the third round both Hyun-ju and Kim Young-mi become safe when Gyeong-seok joins them in a room, while in the fifth and last round, when Hyun-ju was devastated about Young-mi's death and doesn't even try to find a partner, Gyeong-seok shows up and takes her hand to run into a room together. 
They are later often seen beside each other, especially when the X Group members discuss and take decisions. 
When the rebellion starts, they team up to take down the masked guards.
At one moment, Hyun-ju notices that Gyeong-seok doesn't know how to properly use a gun, so she steps forward and shows everyone how the weapon works. In this moment Gyeong-seok looks at her in amazement and astonishment.
Gyeong-seok then asks her out of curiosity where all her knowledge about weapons comes from, and Hyun-ju says to him that she used to be a Special Forces sergeant (by doing so she implies that she previously was a male, as this occupation couldn't be done by any female). 
Gyeong-seok looks surprised, but, not wanting to sound judgmental, he smiles at her.
Their last interaction takes part during the final moments of the rebellion. Hyun-ju realizes that something happened to Dae-ho who didn't return to bring the ammos, so she decides to go back and check. Gyeong-seok thanks her and covers her from being shooted by the guards.
Gyeong-seok is able to escape the island thanks to No-eul's help, but he doesn't mention anything about the games when he returns home.

Kim Young-mi
Young-mi is perhaps her closest ally. Both of them had been allies since the beginning of the second game. After the eliminations of teams one and two, Young-mi was clearly shaken. In the moment, Hyun-ju held Young-mi's hands and told her how brave she was. This caused her to gain the courage for the pentathlon.
During her minigame, while Seon-nyeo screamed at her, Hyun-ju gave her helpful advice that helped her pass her minigame. 
Once the second game concluded, Young-mi refers to Hyun-ju as 'Unnie,' a Korean term for big sister, cementing their bond. After the second vote, Young-mi was clearly annoyed at Hyun-ju for continuing to vote O, but was silent. After Hyun-ju's heart to heart with her and her teammates, Young-mi stated Hyun-ju's beauty, showing that she clearly forgave her. 
During Mingle, Hyun-ju and Young-mi remained together in all the rounds. It was in the forth round that tragedy struck, and Young-mi was left out of a room. In her final moments, she used them to cry out to Hyun-ju, with Hyun-ju trying to bang down the door. Her attempts were in vein, and Young-mi was killed. Hyun-ju is put into a fury of grief, and within the final round, she did not attempt to survive. She just stood, only surviving because of her other close friend, Gyeong-seok.
Although the games continued, Hyun-ju can clearly be seen in a state of mourning, only pulling it together in time for the revolt.

Jang Geum-ja
Geum-ja first spots Hyun-ju before they actually meet. Geum-ja appears confused and unconfutable about Hyun-ju being transgender, even when her son shuts her down. The two first officially interact with each other when forming teams for the pentathlon. The two team up, as nobody wanted either of them for what they were. When it was their turn, Hyun-ju and Geum-ja worked together, with Hyun-ju shutting Seon-nyeo up so Geum-ja could focus, and Geum-ja turning herself and her allies around so Hyun-ju could to jegi. With their team work, they and their friends managed to complete the game, rejoicing together.
When back in the dorms, they began to get to know each other better. Geum-ja asked questions to do with Hyun-ju's transition, though the questions she asked were quite inappropriate, causing her to be shut down by Yong-sik once more. After the second vote, Geum-ja grew disgruntled at Hyun-ju for voting O, but she held back most of her words. Hyun-ju went on to explain what she had gone through, and how people had treated her in the past. Geum-ja began to understand her decision, being a true moment of acceptance.
The two stuck together throughout Mingle, with Hyun-ju protecting her, as well as strategizing methods to ensure both of their safety. During the forth round, when Young-mi met her end, they were the two to show the most grief for her death, but they both managed to keep it together, passing the game.
After Seon-nyeo 'cursed' Hyun-ju and the others, Geum-ja was sure to remove it from them. After Hyun-ju voted in the third vote, Geum-ja walked over to comfort her, as Hyun-ju was still going through grief. As the revolt began, Hyun-ju looked back at her friends, with Geum-ja holding up a sign for luck. Near the end of the revolt, Hyun-ju planned to attack the guards that entered the dorms, but it was Geum-ja who stopped her, knowing she would die. As per her request, Hyun-ju stood down.
As the fourth game began, Hyun-ju made sure to take both Geum-ja and Jun-hee under her wing in order to keep them safe. She guided them through the maze, even killing Yeong-sam to protect them. Later on, when in the marine room, Hyun-ju assisted Jun-hee's birth when requested by Geum-ja, the two working together to help Jun-hee.
When Player 202 entered, Hyun-ju pounced to keep her friends safe once more. After defeating him, Hyun-ju had the opportunity to escape, but she decided to return to save her friends, although this would cause her demise. After Hyun-ju had died, Geum-ja held her, shutting her eyes in hopes she rested in peace.

Trivia
Hyun-ju may have gone through breast augmentation surgery, given comments made by Jang Geum-ja. However, it could also be a result of hormone replacement therapy.
She has shown to have much physical strength and endurance compared to the other characters, likely due to her past as a soldier.
Jang Geum-ja prayed for her passing at the end of her life.
She ranks as the second-strongest player in the 37th Squid Game, only inferior to  Hwang In-ho boasts outstanding combat IQ and physical strength, having snatched a knife to kill  Kim Yeong-sam and take down the equally powerful Player 202
Indirectly, Kang Dae-ho was the reason why she survived the Rebellion plan that ultimately failed (because they ran out of magazines) which resulted in the remaining members of the rebel team being killed (excluding Gi-hun).
Her player number is a factorial number. (5!)
She is the only transgender character in Squid Game.
According to Park Sung-hoon, Hyun-ju might've been a victim of the Jeonse deposit scam, just like Park Min-su, which would explain her debt being ₩330 million.[2]
Coincidentally, both their player numbers are in the range of the 120s.
In “One More Game” Hyun-ju reveals that she lives in Gwangmyeong.
Her death can be foreshadowed in Keys and Knives. When Nam-gyu points his knife at Myung-gi, the camera seems to be at an angle where it makes him look like he's pointing at Hyun-ju, showing how he would indirectly cause her death.
Hyun-ju, along with Player 015, Player 054,Min-su, & possibly Gyeong-su and Se-mi did not chant one more game despite voting O.
Cho Hyun-ju was the only woman to be apart of Gi-hun's Revolt.
Before season 3, Park Sung-hoon stated in an interview that her character's biggest regret was not taking a look behind her to see who was there after opening the door.
She shares similarities with Ali Abdul: both are kind, caring and selfless characters who are determined to save anyone, both helped Gi-hun in Red Light, Green Light, and both were killed by a main character in the fourth game.
According to Park Sung-hoon, Hyun-ju's former name was Cho Hyun-jun.[3]
The move that Hyun-ju used on Kim Yeong-sam is a classic judo throw called Seoi Nage (肩車 / Shoulder Throw).
Originally, Roh Jae-won was going to play Hyun-ju instead of Nam-gyu but the role was given to Park Sung-hoon so Roh Jae-won went with the role of Nam-gyu.
Hyun-ju killed two people (Yeong-sam and Player 202) in the game, but when adding 8 guards to the kill count, she killed 10 people overall, more than anyone other player in the series (excluding Seong Gi-hun and Hwang In-ho). Despite this, she is still one of the most kind hearted characters, killing the other seekers just to protect her friends and the other hiders.
She is also the only known blue team member in Hide-And-Seek to have killed red team members.
When Hyun-ju killed Kim Yeong-sam she also indirectly avenged any X player who Yeong-sam attacked or killed during the Special Game.
She outlived her 33rd Squid Games counterpart by one game.
While Hyun-ju herself got her name and debt displayed on the TV by the guards in 001, one of her victims, Kim Yeong-sam, and her killer, Lee Myung-gi, also get their names and debts revealed on the same TV.
Fans have also pointed out that unlike most of the characters when their debt is revealed on the screen, who are at a relatively populated locations like a city or most commonly a subway station, Hyun-ju is instead in what seems to be in the middle of nowhere. Some fans theorize that, since transgender people aren't that well accepted in South Korea, Hyun-ju was on an isolated place, either on a field or just in the middle of nowhere.
Hyun-ju is the first player to talk to the Guards in Season 2.
She is tied with Seong Gi-hun for the most amount of kills from players in Im Jeong-dae's team, with Hyun-ju killing Kim Yeong-sam and Player 202, and Gi-hun killing Player 096 and Kim Gi-min.
Hyun-ju’s killing style seems to involve aiming for the chest, as she kills both Yeong-sam and 202 this way, as well as Choi Hyuk.
Among all the rebels, she has the highest O to X voting ratio, with half of her votes being O votes.
False leaks before Season 3 circulated claiming she helped Gi-hun break into the VIP room. She riskily hid a gun and entered the Hide and Seek game. Finally, she was discovered and shot in the head by Kang No-eul.
She is the only main character player in the 37th Squid Games to have her icon be seen facing out, but not have her elimination announced.
The same music occurs during both her death scene and Gi-hun's death scene.
Both Player 120's deaths are shown/announced.
She shares similarities with Ali Abdul: both are kind, caring and selfless characters who are determined to save anyone, both helped Gi-hun in Red Light, Green Light, and both were killed by a main character in the fourth game.
Something that makes Hyun-ju's death sadder is that she likely died thinking that the Seeker who ended her life would kill Jun-hee, Geum-ja, and the baby as well, which would have been the case if that Seeker were Nam-gyu. Fortunately, it was Myung-gi, and he hid them away from Nam-gyu, knowing that they would all die if he knew where they were.
Hyun-ju's death is foreshadowed by when Nam-gyu points his knife at Myung-gi, the camera is in an angle that make it look like he's pointing it at her, showing that his idea of killing more Hiders than necessary would lead to her death.
Like Kang Sae-byeok and Han Mi-nyeo in Season 1, Hyun-ju also tagged along with Geum-ja and Jun-hee to the bathroom at night.
Hyun-ju assisting Gi-hun in helping Kim Nam-du cross the finish line in the last few seconds of Red Light, Green Light was a callback to her season one counterpart, Ali.
Since Hyun-ju placed 39th in the competition, her 33rd Squid Game counterpart is Player 360's partner (likley either Player 089, Player 115, or Player 187).
She was possibly the only player who had to make her bed even though she knew she was going to die in the fourth game.
She is the last female player confirmed to have played Jegi for the pentathlon.
Additionally, one of her indirect victims was also a woman who played Jegi.
Her name's meaning follows the lines of 'beauty,' while her deadname is closer to 'handsome.'
Behind the scenes
Cho Hyun-ju is portrayed by Park Sung-hoon, who was cast due to
the fact that there are few transgender actresses who are open about their gender identity. She was created to represent those who are marginalized in South Korea similar to Ali Abdul. More specifically, she was meant to bring light to what transgender individuals face within South Korea. While they are allowed access to gender affirming care, members of the military are discharged on the spot and finding work is difficult for them.
Park Sung-hoon was casted for Hyun-ju because the director Hwang Dong-hyuk saw Sung-hoon act in a short drama from 2021 called Hee-Soo. Although in the drama Sung-hoon played the role of a father, the reason of why the director picked specifically him to play a transgender character is unknown, since Sung-hoon hasn't asked the director.[4]
During filming, Park Sung-hoon was told by the director to shed a single tear when she died. He was able to do this, as he can cry on command.
Cho Hyun-ju is based off the real Sargent Byun Hui-su, the first Korean transgender soldier. Hyun-ju's dream of moving to Thailand may have been inspired by Byun, as she had her gender reassignment surgery there. The exploration of how Hyun-ju is discriminated against is also based off Hui-su, as she was discharged when she came out and started transitioning. Byun Hui-su tragically took her own life in 2021 at the age of 22 years old.
In the English dub, she was voiced by Nicky Endres, in the French dub she was voiced by Virginie Emane, and in the Latin-American Spanish dub she was voiced by Coco Máxima.

Appearances
Season Two
"001"
"Six Legs"
"One More Game"
"O X"
"Friend or Foe"
Season Three
"Keys and Knives"
"The Starry Night"
"It's Not Your Fault" (corpse)
"222" (mentioned)
Gallery
Season 2
Hyun-ju's icon.Hyun-ju's first appearance, questioning the legitimacy of the games.Ditto.Hyun-ju getting slapped by the recruiter as shown on the screen.Ditto.Hyun-ju watching herself be slapped on the monitorHyun-ju looking at the Piggy bank.Hyun-ju signing the player consent form.Cho Hyun-ju taking her photo before Red Light, Green Light.Cho Hyun-ju fixing her hair to take her photo.Ditto.Hyun-ju confused at Gi-hun's warning.Cho Hyun-ju looking at Kang Mi-na when she moved during Red Light, Green Light.Hyun-ju during the Red Light, Green Light massacre.Hyun-ju running in Red Light, Green Light.Hyun-ju running to the finish line.Ditto.Ditto.Hyun-ju supporting Nam-du with Gi-hun.Hyun-ju looking at the players while remaining still.Ditto.Hyun-ju and Gi-hun bringing Nam-du across the finish line.Hyun-ju panting after crossing the finish line.Nam-du thanking Hyun-ju for saving him.Nam-du's blood getting on Hyun-ju's face after he gets shot.Hyun-ju looking at Gi-hun.Hyun-ju and Gi-hun watching the roof close.Hyun-ju cowering from the soldiers as they enter the dormitory.Ditto.Hyun-ju watching the prize increase.Hyun-ju looking at the voting buttons.Hyun-ju pressing the O.Hyun-ju looking for a team.Hyun-ju asking to join 341's team.Hyun-ju being rejected.Hyun-ju meeting Young-mi for the first time.Hyun-ju after Young-mi asks to team up.Hyun-ju and Young-mi meeting Yong-sik and Geum-ja.Hyun-ju and Young-mi looking Seon-nyeo.Hyun-ju discussing the pentathlon with her teammates.Hyun-ju crouching down as teams one and two are killed.Hyun-ju tying her hair up to prepare for her team's turn.Hyun-ju encouraging Young-mi.Hyun-ju saying she believes in her team.Hyun-ju and Geum-ja leaning back for Seon-nyeo's arms.Hyun-ju and her team setting off.Hyun-ju telling Young-mi how to play Ddakji effectively.Hyun-ju telling her team to move forward after Yong-sik messes up Biseokchigi.Hyun-ju walking backwards after Yong-sik grabs his stone.Hyun-ju shutting Seon-nyeo up while Geum-ja plays Gong-gi.Hyun-ju telling Seon-nyeo she has to tie the string around the axel.Hyun-ju trying to keep Seon-nyeo calm.Hyun-ju slapping Seon-nyeo to get her together.The rules of Jegi being explained to Hyun-ju.Ditto, BTS.Hyun-ju telling her team not to look.Hyun-ju telling the other players not to look.Hyun-ju preparing herself.Hyun-ju kicking the Jegi.Hyun-ju looking to the worker to see if she's allowed to continue.Hyun-ju celebrating.Hyun-ju and her team about to cross the finish line.Hyun-ju crossing the finish line.Hyun-ju's team celebrating their victory.Hyun-ju talking with Young-mi.Ditto.Hyun-ju back in the dormitory with her friends.Hyun-ju watching the prize increase.Hyun-ju watching the second vote preparations.Hyun-ju agreeing to leave.Hyun-ju looking at the buttons in the second vote.Hyun-ju pressing the O for the second time.Hyun-ju walking to the O side.Hyun-ju looking over at Young-mi as she begins to cry.Hyun-ju looking down in shame.Hyun-ju watching the other players chant for one more game.Hyun-ju after the second vote.Hyun-ju explaining her backstory to Young-mi Geum-ja and Yong-sik.Hyun-ju telling Geum-ja she used to be a sergeant.Hyun-ju sniffling after Young-mi called her beautiful.Hyun-ju asking the soldier if she can go to the bathroom with Geum-ja and Jun-hee.Hyun-ju finding out Jun-hee is pregnant.Hyun-ju staring at herself in the mirror.Hyun-ju watching Geum-ja comfort Jun-hee.Hyun-ju smiling and Young-mi making up on the stairs just before Mingle.Hyun-ju entering Mingle.Hyun-ju on the carousel with Young-mi and Gi-hun at the beginning of the game.Hyun-ju telling Gi-hun she's a group of four.Hyun-ju grabbing Seon-nyeo to create a group of ten.Hyun-ju entering room 44.Hyun-ju staring at Seon-nyeo as she rambles.Hyun-ju on the Mingle platform before Round 2.Ditto.Hyun-ju staring at Seon-nyeo before ditching her in round two.Hyun-ju watching the timer go to zero in room 26.Hyun-ju exiting her room after round two.Hyun-ju staring at Seon-nyeo after round two,Hyun-ju and Young-mi holding hands.Hyun-ju telling her team to split up and find one more for round three.Hyun-ju's icon during round 3 of Mingle.Hyun-ju searching for one more person.Hyun-ju and Young-mi hugging Geum-ja after surviving round three.Hyun-ju introducing Geum-ja to Gyeong-seok.Hyun-ju on the carousel as round four begins.Hyun-ju realizing room 02 is filled.Hyun-ju yelling at her allies to come to room 06.Hyun-ju asking where Young-mi is.Hyun-ju in shock after Young-mi didn't make it.Hyun-ju trying to open the door.Hyun-ju witnessing Young-mi's death.Hyun-ju blaming Myung-gi for Young-mi's death.Hyun-ju crying.Hyun-ju leaving the room after round four.Gyeong-seok grabbing Hyun-ju in the final round.Hyun-ju and Gyeong-seok running to room 32.Hyun-ju watching Gyeong-seok close the door to room 32.Hyun-ju sitting with her friends after Mingle.Hyun-ju staring at Seon-nyeo in anger.Hyun-ju walking to the buttons during the third vote.Hyun-ju looking at the buttons with remorse.Hyun-ju pressing the X.Hyun-ju smiling at Geum-ja.Hyun-ju during mealtime.Hyun-ju holding Jun-hee as the fractions begin yelling.Hyun-ju and Gyeong-seok listening to the eliminations of the bathroom fight.Hyun-ju in the headcount.Hyun-ju during the conversation about the rebellion.Hyun-ju asking if they stand a chance.Hyun-ju hiding with Gyeong-seok during the Special Game.Hyun-ju and Gyeong-seok playing dead after the Special Game ends.Hyun-ju steeling the soldier's gun and shooting him.Hyun-ju shooting another soldier.Hyun-ju shooting another soldier.Hyun-ju shooting another soldier.Hyun-ju instructing Gyeong-seok to collect the ammunition.Hyun-ju shooting the dormitory's cameras.Hyun-ju getting the rebels' attention.Hyun-ju explaining the MP5 submachine guns.Hyun-ju making sure they are clear.Hyun-ju telling Gyeong-seok about her military history.Hyun-ju moving during the rebellion.Hyun-ju shooting another soldier.Hyun-ju shooting another soldier.Hyun-ju shooting another soldier.Hyun-ju shooting another soldier.Hyun-ju telling the other rebels to check how much ammo they have left.Hyun-ju telling the others she'll go back to the dorms to collect more ammo.Hyun-ju listening to Dae-ho state he'll go back instead.Hyun-ju trying to contact Dae-ho.Hyun-ju running back to the dormitory.Hyun-ju yelling for Dae-ho.Hyun-ju asking Dae-ho where the magazines are.Hyun-ju preparing to shoot even more soldiers.Geum-ja stopping Hyun-ju from attacking.Hyun-ju standing down.
Season 3
Hyun-ju and co approaching the coffin.Hyun-ju about to open the coffin.Hyun-ju realizing Gi-hun is inside.Ditto.Ditto.Hyun-ju confirming Gi-hun's survival, and telling Yong-sik to help her bring him to a bed.Hyun-ju watching Gi-hun wake up.Hyun-ju asking Gi-hun what happened to Jung-bae.Hyun-ju watching Gi-hun beg for death.Hyun-ju looking at Gi-hun after he's called for voting.Hyun-ju disappointed after Player 448 switched her vote.Hyun-ju walking back after the revote.Hyun-ju watching Seon-nyeo be pulled away after Gi-hun tried to kill her.Hyun-ju looking at Dae-ho before receiving her food.Hyun-ju looking at a cuffed Gi-hun.Hyun-ju apologizing to Gi-hun for the failed rebellion.Hyun-ju making her bed before the forth game.Hyun-hu witnessing the strung up corpses of the rebels.Hyun-ju holding a blue ball.Hyun-ju after finding out the red team will attempt to kill her.Hyun-ju asking the guards what are the keys are.Hyun-ju entering Hide and Seek.Hyun-ju looking around the starting area.Hyun-ju looking at Im Jeong-dae.Ditto.Hyun-ju returning to the starting point to bring Jun-hee and Geum-ja with her.Hyun-ju holding Jun-hee to go up the stairs.Hyun-ju peering around a corner.Hyun-ju checking her key.Hyun-ju figuring out the key system.Hyun-ju asking to borrow Jun-hee's key.Hyun-ju seeing Geum-ja has the square key.Hyun-ju explaining the keys to her friends.Hyun-ju's team watching Player 418 run away.Hyun-ju's team noticing Yeong-sam.Hyun-ju's team running away.Ditto.Hyun-ju taking Jun-hee up the stairs.Hyun-ju keeping Yeong-sam away from the injured Jun-hee.Hyun-ju preparing to fight Yeong-sam.Hyun-ju getting her hair pulled by Yeong-sam.Hyun-ju throwing Yeong-sam over her shoulder.Ditto, gif.Hyun-ju driving the knife into Yeong-sam's chest.Hyun-ju staring at Yeong-sam's corpse.Hyun-ju asking Jun-hee if she can walk.Hyun-ju and Geum-ja holding Jun-hee as they go up the stairs.The trio talking about Myung-gi.Hyun-ju unlocking the marine room.Hyun-ju checking Jun-hee's ankle.Hyun-ju stating her ankle's fractured.Hyun-ju watching Jun-hee's water break.Hyun-ju holding Jun-hee's hand.Hyun-ju holding the baby.Hyun-ju smiling at her friends.Hyun-ju glaring at Player 202.Hyun-ju keeping Player 202 away from the others.Player 202 crawling towards Hyun-ju.Player 202 stabbing Hyun-ju's leg.Hyun-ju yelling in pain.Ditto, gif.Hyun-ju tossing Player 202 over her.Hyun-ju fighting off Player 202 after losing her knife.Hyun-ju against the wall.Hyun-ju keeping Player 202's knife away from her face.Hyun-ju taking Player 202's knife.Hyun-ju stabbing Player 202 in the heart.Hyun-ju releasing Player 202's corpse.Hyun-ju staring at Player 039.Hyun-ju wiping her face.Ditto, but as a GIF.Hyun-ju leaving the exit room irritably.Hyun-ju looking back.Hyun-ju seeing the exit sign.Hyun-ju unlocking the exit.Hyun-ju looking at the exit.Hyun-ju relieved.Hyun-ju looking back.Hyun-ju heading back to the marine room.Hyun-ju happily telling Jun-hee and Geum-ja that she found the exit.Hyun-ju realizing she's been stabbed.Hyun-ju's death.Geum-ja crawling over to Hyun-ju's corpse.Hyun-ju's corpse BTSGeum-ja caressing Hyun-ju's head.Geum-ja closing Hyun-ju's eyes.Hyun-ju icon fading.Hyun-ju's faded icon.Hyun-ju placed in her coffin.
Promotional
Cho Hyun-ju's in the "Welcome Players" teaser.Cho Hyun-ju's promotional icon.Ditto.Ditto.Cho Hyun-ju's poster.Hyun-ju beside Kang Dae-ho.Hyun-ju beside Kim Jun-hee.Hyun-ju listening to the staff after waking up in a BTS image.Hyun-ju and Gi-hun watching the roof close in BTS image.Park Sung-hoon looking at Hwang Dong-hyuk playing Jegi.Cho Hyun-ju in the Hiders team.Hyun-ju looking at In-hoCho Hyun-ju's promotional Netflix.
Merchandise

Lim Tae-hoon (Stunt Double)
Her stunt double posing with Park Tae-san.Her stunt double posing with the stunt coordinator.Her stunt double at a stunt recital.Her stunt double practicing the fight scene with Player 202.
References

↑ The 37th Squid Game began directly after Seong Gi-hun met with the Front Man on October 31, with Hide and Seek occurring on November 5, as a day was skipped after the tiebreak vote.

↑ https://youtu.be/i5omnFxEMMk?t=270 (Spanish/Korean)

↑ https://news.sbs.co.kr/news/endPage.do?news_id=N1007940611

↑ https://youtu.be/i5omnFxEMMk?t=504 (Spanish/Korean)

Season Two37th Squid GameMain Characters
001
007
120
149
222
230
333
388
390
456
Major Characters
044
047
095
100
124
125
196
226
246
256
380
Supporting Characters
004
006
009
015
016
043
050
066
072
096
145
172
178
189
192
197
198
206
220
254
283
285
313
324
336
343
348
353
394
400
418
442
444
Minor Characters
031
039
045
067
080
084
135
140
165
185
188
199
202
203
209
216
237
238
239
249
257
260
263
270
286
306
308
328
331
350
355
371
384
395
401
415
416
435
448
453
454
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
Others
The Salesman
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Kang Eun-ji
Park Jung-bae
Ex-wifeM
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Chief Kim
Lee Ju-hong
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Mr. Kim
Choi Woo-seok
Lee Jang-uk
Hwang Jae-hun
Yun Jun-ho
Sea Captains
Sea Captain Park
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-wooN
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Hwang In-ho's wife
Kang Sae-byeokNP
Kang Sae-byeok's motherP
Kang Cheol
Park Mal-soon
Park Mi-yeong
Broker
Dentist
Season Three37th Squid GameMain Characters
007
120
124
125
149
222B
246PG
333
388
456
Major Characters
039
044
096
100
203
226
306
336
353
Supporting Characters
006
009
172
192
197
202
230H
232
235
260
349
377
380H
390C
394
400
411
418
442
447
Minor Characters
024
028
047C
048
080
084
105
119
134
145
154
163
191
209
241
276
296
310
312
334
344
350
359
435
440
443
448
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Kim Jung-ho
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
VIPs
Richard
Jennifer
John
Jack
Kevin
Others
Waiters
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Choi Woo-seok
Kim Mu-dong
Sea Captains
Park Yeong-gil
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Kang Sae-byeokH
Kang Sae-byeok's mother
Kang Cheol
Oh Il-namF
Park Man-cheol