Title: 124 (37th Squid Game)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/124_(37th_Squid_Game)
--------------------------------------------------
Nam-gyu






Name
Nam-gyu


Aliases
Player 124 (37th Squid Game)Nam-su (misspoken by Thanos)


Relationships
AlliesThanos † (best friend, teammate)Lee Myung-gi † (former enemy, ally during  Hide and Seek)Kim Yeong-sam † (ally in special game)Player 096 † (ally)Kim Gi-min † (ally)Player 442 † (ally)Player 418 † (ally)Player 348 † (ally)Gyeong-su † (teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon and Mingle)EnemiesPark Min-su † (arch-nemesis; former teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon and Mingle; indirect killer)Se-mi † (archenemy, former teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon and Mingle; victim)Player 067 † (enemy; attempted killer)Park Jae-cheol † (enemy, attempted killer; victim)Im Jeong-dae † (former ally; attempted victim)Player 411 † (victim)Park Mi-hwa † (victim)Player 185 † (enemy; victim)Player 331 † (enemy, attempted killer; victim)Player 251 † (indirect victim in Mingle)Player 279 † (indirect victim in Mingle)


Affiliation
Club PentagonSquid Games37th Squid GameTeam O (formerly)Team XThanos' team (formerly)Im Jeong-dae's team (formerly)Seekers


Occupation
Club promoter (formerly)


Born
1997[1] (age 27)[2]


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
November 6, 2024[3]Jump Rope


Cause of death
Knocked by the rope and fell to death



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Brown


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Roh Jae-won





First appearance
Last appearance




"001"
"⭘△☐" (hallucination)







Voting




Round 1
Round 2
Round 3















Round 3 Tie
Round 4












What's that old Admiral Yi Sun-sin quote? "Those who seek life shall die. Those who seek death shall live." Okay, everyone? Just go in like you're gonna die anyway. Tell yourself you don't care what happens to you. We'll win this thing, take our cash, and get the fuck out of here.
Nam-gyu expressing his belief to Park Min-su that an individual can escape the fear of death if they don't care whether they live or die  in "Six Legs"

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 123
Park Min-su(Player 125)







Nam-gyu (남규 Nam-gyu?), also known as Player 124, was a contestant in the 37th Squid Game and one of the few semifinalists of the competition. He was one of the two quinary antagonists (alongside Im Jeong-dae) of Squid Game, serving as one of the two tertiary antagonists (alongside his best friend Thanos) of Season 2, and one of the four tertiary antagonists (alongside Im Jeong-dae, Lee Myung-gi, and Kim Gi-min) of Season 3. 

Contents

1 History

1.1 Background
1.2 Squid Games
1.3 Fate
1.4 Legacy


2 Personality
3 Kill count
4 Trivia
5 Behind the scenes
6 Appearances
7 Gallery

7.1 Season 2
7.2 Season 3
7.3 GIFS
7.4 Promotional
7.5 Behind the scenes


8 References


History
Background
Before the games, Nam-gyu worked as a club promoter at Club Pentagon, where he became acquainted with the rapper Thanos. He regularly brought him drugs and got him free drinks through his position at the club. He was an active drug user as well, having tried nearly every street drug he could obtain through the clubbing scene.
In 2024, Nam-gyu invested large amounts of money in a cryptocurrency called Dalmatian, on the advice of the YouTube channel MG Coin. Unfortunately, the currency turned out to be a scam, and Nam-gyu lost over ₩300 million when the rug was pulled. This led him to participate in the Squid Games, where he hoped to find a quick way to settle his financial problems.

Squid Games
Throughout the Games, he forms a relationship with Thanos. Thanos seeks revenge on Myung-gi (MG Coin), the crypto influencer whose greed caused him a huge financial loss. Together they plan to take down Myung-gi, whom they blame for their respective downfalls. Their alliance is not only based on a desire for vengeance but also on the desperation they both feel after losing everything in their lives.

     Nam-gyu sitting with Thanos's Team after The Six-legged Pentathlon  
Nam-gyu was among the players who passed through the first game successfully. In the second game, the Six-Legged Pentathlon, Thanos and he teamed up with Gyeong-su. Together, they proceeded to recruit Se-mi and Park Min-su to form their team for the Six-Legged Pentathlon, despite Nam-gyu's apprehensions about the latter due to his timid nature. Whilst waiting their turn, Nam-gyu takes some drugs, and insults Min-su for watching, Se-mi defends her friend leading to Nam-gyu insulting her 'attitude' and expressing annoyance at having her as an ally. Nam-gyu played Paengi and eventually, their team managed to pass the second challenge successfully.
At the Dormitory, Nam-gyu expressed his dismay at the high number of players who had survived. He then ordered Park Min-su to count the players who made it through. However, Se-mi interrupted, saying that the guards would soon arrive to announce the results. Irritated, Nam-gyu's tension with Se-mi began to rise, but Thanos intervened to defuse the situation. He shifted the conversation by asking about his team's respective ages. Gyeong-su was the youngest, while Se-mi was the eldest. Nam-gyu and Min-su were the same age. Thanos then demanded that Park Min-su stop taking orders from Nam-gyu and insisted that Nam-gyu refer to Se-mi as noona.
In the vote, despite Park Min-su wanting to end the game and previously voting "X", Nam-gyu works with Thanos and Gyeong-su to pressure him into changing his vote. Nam-gyu also votes "O", successfully continuing the games.
Later, in the bathroom, Nam-gyu and Thanos confronted Lee Myung-gi, accusing him of being a "traitor" for voting X and choosing to leave the game. They questioned how he planned to pay off their debts with how little the accumulated prize money were and pressured him to stay in the game. Lee Myung-gi, in turn, remarked about Thanos' forgetfulness and his incident at his concert, which greatly annoyed him. Before Thanos could retaliate, Seong Gi-hun's team entered the scene, notably Young-il and both teams ultimately decided to leave Lee Myung-gi alone for the time being.

In the third round 'Mingle', Nam-gyu survived the first round, but on the second the number is 'four'. Thanos physically kicks Gyeong-su away before fleeing to a room with Nam-gyu, Park Min-su and Se-mi following together. When Park Min-su asked what happened to Gyeong-su, Nam-gyu angrily insults him stating they will never be friends or equals. The next number is 'three', with Nam-gyu and Thanos proclaiming together that whoever wins rock paper scissors can join them, Se-mi instead tells Park Min-su to join her, but he betrays her and joins them. They survive the next round of 'six' then the final round is 'two' in which Nam-gyu and Thanos abandon Park Min-su and survive together by violently pushing out a pair who had already reached a room.Yo! Yo, "O" Gang! Hey! Listen! In the bathroom, all of a sudden the Xs started attacking us outta nowhere! We were just standing there. Those assholes went after us! They killed my friend, and a bunch of people on our side too. They're all dead!
Nam-gyu telling Team O after the Bathroom fight in "Friend or Foe"After the game is over, Thanos and Nam-gyu discover Park Min-su survived, and they hug him, expressing pride in his betrayal of Se-mi, despite her survival. Nam-gyu notices Lee Myung-gi and Kim Jun-hee talking, and deduces they are likely a couple, after watching Kim Jun-hee further he also suspects she is pregnant. Nam-gyu again attempts to pressure Min-su into voting "O". When Se-mi switches her vote to "X", Nam-gyu insults her, and she gives him the middle finger upon noticing his continued abuse of Park Min-su. Park Min-su switches his vote to "X", infuriating him. When the vote ends in a tie, Nam-gyu and Thanos follow Park Min-su to the bathroom, and Nam-gyu scales the stall to physically force Park Min-su into changing his vote. Lee Myung-gi sees this and attempts to stop them, leading to the bathroom splitting into "X" and "O", after Nam-gyu brings up Kim Jun-hee, the confrontation turns violent. Lee Myung-gi kills Thanos with a fork, the same fork which Nam-gyu then uses to murder several other players. After Nam-gyu stabs 331, 067 rips off a urinal dlvlder and picks it up. He shatters the divider on Nam-gyu's back, and 2-3 more Urinal divider sounds are heard off-screen. If the bathroom fight had gone on any longer, 067 would have nearly killed Nam-gyu.
During the Special Game Nam-gyu faces Se-mi (Player 380), and attempts to kill her with the fork. Park Min-su attempts to help her by throwing down a glass bottle from above, but she misses Nam-gyu, and despite Se-mi's retaliation with the glass shards, Nam-gyu brutally kills her.  
Throughout the season, Nam-gyu's relationship with Thanos and his hatred for Myung-gi continue to shape his decisions, but by the end of the season, Nam-gyu is one of the few survivors of the game. The alliance between the two characters disintegrates when Thanos dies in "O X", leaving Nam-gyu alone in his struggle for survival.

You can do it, my bro, Min-su. Min-su!
Nam-gyu to Park Min-su, while imitating Thanos's voice in "Keys and Knives"
Before Hide and Seek, Nam-gyu takes some pills, gives Thanos's drug necklace to Park Min-su for him to try one, and vents out his anger of Thanos, even impersonating his accent. Then he walks up to his former enemy, Lee Myung-gi (who just switched sides with Jun-hee) and asks if they could form an alliance. He agrees, but doesn't take the drugs.
During the game, the two of them go on a rampage. After Lee Myung-gi makes the suggestion to stab the player together so that both of them benefit, they go on a rampage, killing Players 235 and 411, passing the game. When Seon-nyeo betrayed her group and left them out to die to the red players, Nam-gyu stabbed Park Mi-hwa. When Myung-gi kills Hyun-ju and realizes her connection to Jun-hee, Nam-gyu asks him if he saw anyone in that room. Lee Myung-gi denies it.
After completing Hide and Seek, Nam-gyu realized that the drug necklace was missing and desperately tried to go back to retrieve it but was stopped by the soldiers. He lost the will to continue and voted X in the resulting vote, then looked in anger as Min-su deliberately voted O to spite him.

Fate
     Nam-gyu's corpse.  
I'm sorry, dude! Please, I mean it. I'm sorry for everything! I can't do this without that shit!
Nam-gyu pleading to Min-su to give him back the drugs. in "It's Not Your Fault"
In Jump Rope, he crumbled in anxiety upon seeing how high he is above the pit at the bottom. When Min-su confronted him and revealed that he took the necklace, he tries to snatch it back and cowardly apologized for his actions, only for Min-su to throw the necklace onto the Jump Rope platform, forcing him to be the first player to attempt the game. As he nervously crossed the platform while jumping over the rope, he retrieved his necklace and opened it to take the drugs, only to find out it's empty since Park Min-su took the last one. Nam-gyu realized that Min-su had deceived him, Nam-gyu got shocked and the rope hit him, falling to his death and making him pay for being an imbecile with Min-su and killing Se-mi. His body was presumably incinerated after Jump Rope, he placed 24th in the competition.

Legacy
Nam-gyu makes a posthumous appearance in the episode "⭘△☐", alongside Thanos, as a hallucination experienced by Park Min-su during the Sky Squid Game.

Personality
After all the free drinks I give him at the club, that fucking asshole kept walking all over me, and calling me Nam-su, fucking dickhead. "Hey Nam-su." It's Nam-gyu, Nam-su, Nam-gyu, dude Nam-gyu, Nam-gyu, Nam-gyu, Nam-gyu, Nam-gyu! I fucking told him till blood gushed from his ears, asshole.
Nam-gyu in Hide and Seek to Lee Myung-gi how he was used to be called and bullied by Thanos 
Nam-gyu is shown to be a more violent, cruel and sadistic person, more than even Thanos is. While Thanos treats his teammates with respect and is even upset by Gyeong-su's death. Nam-gyu shared even more traits among other O voters especially greed. He openly showed his disappointment that in Six-Legged Pentathlon that not enough players died. Even after Mingle where the prize money was enough to pay his debt, Nam-gyu still voted O just so more players will die and he will get more money becoming overconfident. Nam-gyu is indifferent and uncaring towards the lives of other contestants showing no remorse for anyone who dies, other then Thanos. Like many Os this includes his team members, Nam-gyu bullies both Se-mi and Park Min-su frequently, to the point where even Thanos calls him out for it. His hatred for Se-mi is to the point where he brutally murders her even enjoying it. He even admitted that he was deliberately looking for Min-su to kill as well but couldn't find him.  
While not nearly as unhinged as Thanos, Nam-gyu is still somewhat mentally disturbed. Unlike Thanos, he doesn’t care about using other people to his advantage and sees them as disposable. He also shares Thanos' vengeful nature, and sees any comrade who opposes him as a traitor. He can also act very rudely towards others people and displays crude and inappropriate behaviour. The extent of Nam-gyu's psychopathic nature is shown in Hide and Seek where he gleefully accepted his role as a Seeker showing excitement during the game. He showed himself to be a complete sadist relishing when he killed several players just to increase the prize money. He enjoyed watching the other players die and life fade from their eyes in front of him, he also smartly pointed out by killing additional hiders they were also killing seekers showing Nam-gyu could be observant as he also noticed Jun-hee was pregnant.   
He feels some resentment towards Thanos' treatment of him so it's questionable how genuine their friendship was. Feeling as though he was inferior to him. Following his death, as a way to try to hide his grief, he curses Thanos for believing he was an idiot, and takes his cross necklace, he surprisingly praised his former enemy Myung-gi for killing Thanos, taking Thanos' place as the main spokesperson of the group. In line with his reckless behaviour, Nam-gyu states that he believes an individual can escape the fear of death by telling themselves they don't care about whether they live or die.   
However, he also appeared to be a coward as he heavily relied on taking the pills to suppress his fears in the games. After he asked the guards where he left his necklace in Hide and Seek and asked to retrieve it, this causes him to surprisingly vote X for the only time and begged Park Min-su after knowing he took the drug necklace. As he depended so much on them yet only for him to throw the cross at the Jump Rope platform. This caused his addiction to get the better of him as when he retrieved the necklace he was more focused on the necklace being empty rather then focusing on the rope. Albeit his cowardice, Nam-gyu is shown to have extreme anxiety, shown through his shaking hands and ability to rely on the pills to gain confidence. More evident showings of his anxiety is his trembling nature whenever his reliance is challenged.
Nam-gyu also seems to be very manipulative, changing his personality and tone of voice simply so that Min-su feels some empathy for him, but after seeing Min-su walk away with the drugs in his hand, his first instinct is to run and try to take them from him without even asking. He even begs both Min-su and the soldier when explaining that he needs the drugs, using a more melancholic voice before abruptly switching to an aggressive demeanor.

Kill count
Confirmed killsAttempted killsIndirect kills


Character

Information

Image/GIF


"O X"Mingle


Player 251

Caused her death by pulling her hair and throwing her down, and then blocking the room, which led to her death; indirectly shared kill with Thanos.




"Friend or Foe"Bathroom Fight


Player 331

Stabbed repeatedly in the neck and chest with a fork.




"Friend or Foe"Special Game


Player 185

Stabbed repeatedly in the neck with a fork.




Se-mi(Player 380)

Stabbed repeatedly in the neck with Min-su's glass bottle.




"The Starry Night"Hide and Seek


Park Jae-cheol(Player 235)

Stabbed in the chest with a hunting knife; shared kill with Lee Myung-gi.




Player 411




Park Mi-hwa(Player 006)

Stabbed her in the neck with a hunting knife after she got ambushed and Seon-nyeo leaving her group behind.




Two Unknown Hiders(Player 009, Player 024, Player 241 or Player 344)

Stabbed to death with a hunting knife; shared kill(s) with Lee Myung-gi. Confirmed to have done this due to there being an extra two hiders dying during the game.




"It's Not Your Fault"Jump Rope


Himself

Caused after he froze on the bridge once he saw there were no pills left in Thanos' cross necklace, leading to him falling to his death.





Character

Information

Image/GIF


"Six Legs"Dormitory


Lee Myung-gi(Player 333)

Attempted to beat him to death alongside Thanos.




"O X"Mingle


Se-mi(Player 380)

Indirectly attempted by abandoning her during the third round of Mingle; alongside Thanos and (unintentionally) Park Min-su.




Park Min-su(Player 125)

Indirectly attempted by abandoning him during the final round of Mingle; alongside Thanos.




"Friend or Foe"Special Game


Park Min-su(Player 125)

Planned to stab him during the Special Game; plan mentioned in "Keys and Knives".

https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/File:Nam-gyu_tells_min-su_he_wanted_to_kill_him.mp3


"The Starry Night"Hide and Seek


Im Jeong-dae(Player 100)

Attempted to accidentally kill him by stabbing his fake corpse; interrupted by Myung-gi.




"It's Not Your Fault"Dormitory


Soldier

Attempted to grab his gun to possibly kill him upon hearing he could not go back into the game arena to search for the necklace; interrupted by the guard fighting back leading to Nam-gyu giving up.




"It's Not Your Fault"Jump Rope


Park Min-su(Player 125)

Attempted to likely choke or beat him to death after he launched the necklace to bridge; interrupted by him managed to break free.





Character

Information

Image/GIF


"O X"Mingle


Gyeong-su(Player 256)

Indirectly caused by abandoning him during round 2, leading to his death; indirect shared kill with Thanos and Se-mi.




Player 279

Indirectly caused by blocking his access to a room during round 5, leading to his death; shared kill with Thanos.




"The Starry Night"Hide and Seek


Player 447

Indirectly caused by telling Lee Myung-gi about killing more hiders for more money.




Cho Hyun-ju(Player 120)




Player 009

Indirectly caused by ambushing Seon-nyeo's group alongside Lee Myung-gi, leading to them splitting up and her getting killed by an unknown Seeker.




"The Starry Night" and "It's Not Your Fault"Hide and Seek


Player 028

Indirectly caused by killing more hiders than necessary, leading to them being unable to find a hider to kill in time; indirect shared kills with Lee Myung-gi.




Player 048


Player 080


Player 119


Player 154


Player 191


Player 296


Player 443

Trivia
Nam-gyu's scream as he falls to his death is identical to Player 244's from the 33rd Squid Game.
During the rebellion, in the scene of a shootout with security in the players area, Nam-gyu is not visible among the players.
Nam-gyu is touchy with other players, particularly Thanos and people he’s familiar with.
This became his disadvantage, as Park Min-su (one of Nam-gyu's closest allies) was uncomfortable being around him, as well witnessing his friend's death. But without the cross, Park Min-su finally got his revenge on Nam-gyu for his false touchy-feely act.
Nam-gyu didn’t want to continue the games after losing Thanos' pills, another insight on his drug addiction and anxiety. This could also be because he had previously said to Min-su ''We'll play one more game, get that 1 billion then get the fuck out of here'' making him one of the few members of Team O to keep his word.
Nam-gyu's vote in Round 5 was therefore an unexpected revelation to the viewers.
However, in the first round of voting, he wasn't on his drugs and didn't know about it before. Yet, he still voted O this was likely his greed motivating him.
At one point during The Starry Night Nam-gyu started singing a real-life song "Love Scenario" (사랑을 했다 Sarang-eul haetda?), by the South Korean boy band group iKon.[4]
A club similarly-named to Club Pentagon, "Club Octagon", exists in Seoul.
Thanos had predicted his death in episode 4 of season 2 of Squid Game. Thanos says that the pills are "fucking crazy" as they are really strong and that if a person takes the pill they will go into severe withdrawal and Nam-gyu was so addicted to the pills in the cross that, he crossed the bridge only to learn that Park Min-su had taken the last pill and this caused Nam-gyu to die in the fifth game.
When Nam-gyu gets nervous, his legs shake a lot, this was seen in both the Six-Legged Pentathlon and Jump Rope.
In the BTS of Six-Legged Pentathlon, when Nam-gyu fails in Paengi, Se-mi insults him, being in part a small revenge for insulting Park Min-su but also showing us that the relationship between them would end badly.[5]
It's also unknown if he completed Paengi on his first try. The BTS footage shows him failing and then succeeding, but the Six-Legged Pentathlon Montage shows him completing it on his first try. Ironically, the clip used for Nam-gyu throwing the Paengi is the one where he fails, but it gets cut to the one where he succeeds.
Nam-gyu shows up physically in the most episodes of any Team Thanos member, appearing in every episode from "001" to "⭘△☐".
Like Player 096 in Season 1, he was the first eliminated player in Jump Rope.
As an O player, he took the longest to change his vote to X.
Nam-gyu's debt was over ₩300 million meaning his debt was covered after Mingle. After Hide and Seek the prize money covered his debt almost six times over. In exact maths terms his debt was covered once there were only 114 players alive.
He was one of 5 O players to cast the vote that gave the team the majority in voting, the other 4 being In-ho in the 1st, Player 426 in the 2nd, Kim Yun-tae in the 4th, and Im Jeong-dae in the 5th.
According to namuwiki his surname is Kim but this cannot be 100% confirmed[6].
During Season 2, Episode 3, when the players are shown taking their photos, all the displayed players have the same pose in both the scene and their icons. Nam-gyu, however, is the only one with a different pose: while he is shown taking the photo with his head raised, in his icon he looks at the camera in a threatening manner.
Nam-gyu has a total of 7 tattoos on both arms.
He is the only player in Jump Rope who didn’t watch Gi-hun jump with the baby.
The actors of the two players Nam-gyu killed along with Lee Myung-gi appeared in Season 1 of All of Us Are Dead, a show which Roh Jae-won is set to star in for Season 2.
He was originally planned to portray Hyun-ju.
Nam-gyu is shown to have below-average fighting skills as he was overpowered by Player 331 in the bathroom fight, Se-mi in Special Game, and Player 235 in Keys and Knives despite having a knife and the element of surprise. This is a sign that Nam-gyu is a wojak.
Nam-gyu, along with Player 296, No Sang-hun and Byeong-gi, are the only known participants who attacked a guard without having participated in the Rebellion; besides the three, he is the only one who managed to come out alive from this interaction.
During mingle round 2 he is shown to very briefly hesitate when Thanos decides to exclude Gyeong su from the group, briefly hopping up and down on his feet. However he then runs away leaving Gyeong su anyway.
He was counted 23rd in the Team O headcount.
He was also at the center of the rows.
He is Lee Sang-jin's favorite character.
Considering Namgyu's horrible fighting skills and also because he needed people to help him, he most likely would've lost and died in every fight he was in if he didn't have luck or anyone to help him.
Since Nam-gyu placed 24th in the competition, his 33rd Squid Game counterpart is Player 028.
During the Special Game, when Nam-gyu is next to Kim Yeong-sam, it can be seen that Yeong-sam is all covered in red in the thermal scan, which means he is under stress or extremely nervous, while Nam-gyu is purely covered in green, meaning that he's extremely relaxed. This is due to the drugs he took earlier.
The position of his corpse is similar to the recovery position, a position used for people who have taken too much alcohol, or drugs.
Behind the scenes
Nam-gyu was portrayed by Roh Jae-won, who also played Ha Sang-min in A Killer Paradox, Oh Min-u's investigator in Season 2 of D.P., Gu Dae-hong in Doubt, Kim Seo-wan in Daily Dose of Sunshine, Han-soo in Uncle Samsik, Kim Yu-jin in Can This Love Be Translated, and his upcoming role as Han Du-seok in Season 2 of All Of Us Are Dead, etc.. In the English dub, he is voiced by Kevin Matsumoto, and French dub he is voiced by Sébastien Baulain.

Appearances
Season Two
"001"
"Six Legs"
"One More Game"
"O X"
"Friend or Foe"
Season Three
"Keys and Knives"
"The Starry Night"
"It's Not Your Fault"
"222" (corpse)
"⭘△☐" (hallucination)
Gallery
Season 2
Nam-gyu's icon.Nam-gyu's first scene.Nam-gyu watching Jang Geum-ja tell off Park Yong-sik.Nam-gyu snickering.Nam-gyu covering a part  of his faceNam-gyu snickering.Nam-gyu looking at the piggy bank before Red Light, Green Light.Nam-gyu harassing Lee Myung-giNam-gyu talking with Thanos.Nam-gyu taking his photo.Nam-gyu as Thanos shoves him in the stairs.Nam-gyu entering the first game.Another Player 124 after the first red light.Nam-gyu in the initial chaos.Nam-gyu standing behind Cho Hyun-ju.Nam-gyu running with Hyun-ju, Gyeong-su, and Myung-gi.Nam-gyu asking Thanos if he's alright.Nam-gyu taking cover as the Pink Guards rush in.Nam-gyu voting 'O'.Park Gyeong-seok, Thanos and Nam-gyu celebrating player 004's voteNam-gyu celebrating Oh Young-il vote.Nam-gyu bothering Lee Myung-gi with Thanos while  he eats.Nam-Gyu laughing while Thanos.Gyeong-su, Thanos and Nam-gyu looking for two more teammates for the pentathlon.Gyeong-su and Nam-gyufollowing Thanos, seen from afar.Nam-gyu as Thanos invites Se-mi to their team.Nam-gyu looking at Min-su.Thanos' team as the first two teams are gunned down.Nam-gyu asking Thanos for his pills.Nam-gyu and his teammates moving to their next minigame.Nam-gyu shaking Park Min-su for failing at Gonggi.Nam-gyu completing Paengi.Nam-Gyu doing Paengi but GIF.Nam-gyu with his team after the pentathlon.Nam-Gyu with his team.Nam-gyu threatening Park Min-su into voting O.Nam-gyu watching Park Min-su vote.Nam-gyu in the bathrooms after the second vote.Nam-gyu at the beginning of Mingle.Nam-gyu at the beginning of Mingle.Nam-gyu at the beginning of Mingle.Nam-gyu and Thanos mingling.Ditto.Nam-gyu as Gyeong-su is kicked out of the group by Thanos and Min-su stays.Nam-gyu running with Thanos after Gyeong-su is kicked off the team.Nam-gyu after getting in the room with Thanos, looking at Se-mi and Min-su enter too.Nam-gyu yelling at Min-su during Mingle.Nam-gyu exiting the room.Nam-gyu on the Mingle platform before round three.Nam-gyu telling Se-mi and Min-su to play rock paper scissors.Nam-gyu and Thanos picking each other for Round five of Mingle.Nam-gyu pulling Player 251 down.Ditto.Nam-gyu throwing Player 251 to the floor.Nam-gyu after entering the room with Thanos during the final round of Mingle.Nam-gyu and Thanos talking to Min-su after Mingle.Ditto, him talking to Min-su about how he was savage by betraying Se-mi.Ditto, while walking away.Ditto.Nam-gyu telling Thanos and Min-su about Myung-gi talking to Jun-hee.Ditto.Nam-gyu after Se-mi swaps.Nam-gyu walking with Min-su as they go up to vote.Nam-gyu staring at Min-su, before Se-mi sticks up the middle finger to him.Nam-gyu staring at Min-su, shocked and disappointed after he swaps to X.Ditto.Nam-gyu voting O again.Nam-gyu talking to Min-su after the third vote, attempting to convince him to vote O again.Nam-gyu attempting to grab Min-su.Nam-gyu exiting the bathroom stall.Nam-gyu staring at Myung-gi.Nam-gyu as Myung-gi yells.Ditto.Nam-gyu looking slightly worried about Thanos screaming for the Os.Ditto.Ditto.Nam-gyu reminding Thanos about Jun-hee.Ditto.Nam-gyu agreeing with Thanos about hitting one of Myung-gi's nerves.Nam-gyu mocking Jun-hee being pregnant.Nam-gyu as Myung-gi misses his punch.Nam-gyu as Thanos punches Myung-gi.Nam-gyu before the Bathroom Fight.Nam-gyu kicking Myung-gi as the Bathroom Fight starts.Nam-gyu getting attacked by Kwon Byeong-su.Nam-gyu shoving Kwon Byeong-su.Ditto.Player 401 holding Nam-gyu, while trying to hit him.Ditto.Nam-gyu attempting to pass through players to attack Kwon Byeong-su again.Nam-gyu overpowering and punching Player 331.Ditto.Nam-gyu yet again punching Player 331.Nam-gyu overpowering and putting Player 331 in a headlock.Nam-gyu overpowering Player 331.Player 331 catching Nam-gyu off guard and punches him.Nam-gyu falling to the ground.Nam-gyu landing next to Thanos's corpse.Nam-gyu staring at Thanos's necklace.Nam-gyu attempting to take Thanos's necklace.Nam-gyu getting kicked by Player 331.Nam-gyu grabbing the fork.Nam-gyu stabbing Player 331's leg.Nam-gyu stabbing Player 331 while holding him down with his weight.Nam-gyu stabbing Player 331 repeatedly.Nam-gyu still stabbing Player 331's lifeless corpse.Nam-gyu getting hit from behind by Player 067.Nam-gyu falling off Player 331's corpse from the impact of the door.Nam-gyu after the Bathroom Fight.Ditto.Ditto.Nam-gyu explaining what happened and what started the Bathroom Fight.Ditto.Ditto.Nam-gyu trying to remember how many Os and Xs were eliminated after Im Jeong-dae asks.Nam-gyu during the headcount.Nam-gyu after the timer goes off.Ditto.Nam-gyu during the planning of the Special Game.Nam-gyu in bed, before the Special Game.Nam-gyu eating one of Thanos's pills.Ditto.Nam-gyu worried, and reminiscing about Thanos.Nam-gyu staring at Thanos's necklace.Nam-gyu staring at his fork.Player 124 sneaks up onto the X side in the guards' monitors.Nam-gyu and Kim Yeong-sam sneaking over to team X's side in special game.Nam-Gyu getting ready to attack.Nam-gyu just before charging.Nam-gyu preparing to attack Player 185.Nam-gyu stabbing Player 185.Nam-Gyu attacking Player 185.Nam-gyu finding Se-mi in the Special Game.Nam-gyu looking up at Min-su.
Season 3
Nam-gyu after Gi-hun's rebellion.Nam-gyu as a Seeker.Nam-gyu with Myung-gi at the start of Hide and Seek.Nam-gyu offering Myung-gi drugs.Nam-gyu after being rejected.Nam-gyu trying to find a Hider in Hide and Seek.Nam-gyu screaming.Nam-gyu chasing Jae-cheol.Nam-Gyu running after  Jae-cheol.Nam-gyu telling Myung-gi to go the other way.Nam-gyu ambushing Jae-cheol.Nam-gyu attempting to stab Jae-cheol.Nam-gyu on the floor.Nam-gyu crawling over to Jae-cheol.Nam-gyu stabbing Jae-cheol in the leg.Nam-gyu looking at Jae-cheol as he begs not to kill him.Nam-gyu stabbing Jae-cheol.Nam-gyu leaving the room.Nam-gyu talking about Jae-cheol's eyes after killing him.Nam-gyu stabbing Player 411.Nam-gyu calling Player 411 doll eyes.Nam-gyu being grabbed by Myung-gi.Nam-gyu ambushing Seon-nyeo's group.Nam-gyu stabbing Park Mi-hwa in the neck.Nam-gyu seeing Player 418 and Jeong-dae.Nam-gyu mocking Player 418's corpse.Him leaning towards Park Min-su in his hallucanation.Nam-gyu after realizing he lost the cross.Nam-gyu deciding to vote X.Nam-gyu's icon before Jump Rope.Nam Gyu in the fifth round of voting.Nam-gyu seeing Min-su has the cross.Nam-Gyu pissed that Min-Su wouldn't give him back the cross.Nam-gyu begging to Min-su.Nam-gyu after Min-su throws the cross.Nam-gyu crossing the bridge in order to get the cross.Nam-gyu trying to open the cross.Nam-gyu's death.Nam-gyu after being hit by the rope.Nam-gyu falling.Nam-gyu's elimination announcment.Nam-gyu's corpse from above.Nam-gyu's corpse.The sparkle in his eyes went out.Ditto but different angle.A hallucination of Nam-gyu, trying to drag Min-su off the pillar.A hallucination again.A hallucination again but BTS.
GIFS
Nam-gyu voting 'O' in the first vote.Nam-gyu voting 'O' in the second vote.Nam-gyu voting 'O' in the third vote.Nam-gyu voting 'X' in his final vote.
Promotional
A promotional photo of the number patch on the back of his player jacket.Him sitting on a bed looking down.Him voting 'O' on one of the round of votingNam-Gyu after receiving a box with a knife in for Hide and Seek.Promotional picture of some major players for Season 3.
Behind the scenes
Selfie of Roh Jae-Won.Group selfie taken of Team Thanos.Picture of Roh Jae-Won standing on the floor below the bridge of the Jump Rope game.Another group picture of Team Thanos.Group mirror selfie of Roh Jae-won (Nam-Gyu) standing alongside Lee David (Min-su) and Won Ji-an (Se-mi).Another picture of Roh Jae-won with Won Ji-an and Lee David.
References

↑ "One More Game"

↑ Under the traditional Korean age system, which was changed in June 2023, a year is added to a person's age after birth, meaning he would be 28 in 2024. His age, as stated, is given in international years.

↑ During the 37th Squid Game, which began on November 1, a day was skipped when the players tied the vote after Mingle, with Jump Rope occurring on November 6, and the final game happening on November 7.

↑ Season 3, Episode 2. 18:20

↑ https://youtu.be/zQTbNja8fis?t=622 (Turn on English Subtitles)

↑ https://namu.wiki/w/%EA%B9%80%EB%82%A8%EA%B7%9C(%EC%98%A4%EC%A7%95%EC%96%B4%20%EA%B2%8C%EC%9E%84)?from=%EB%82%A8%EA%B7%9C%28%EC%98%A4%EC%A7%95%EC%96%B4%20%EA%B2%8C%EC%9E%84%29

Season Two37th Squid GameMain Characters
001
007
120
149
222
230
333
388
390
456
Major Characters
044
047
095
100
124
125
196
226
246
256
380
Supporting Characters
004
006
009
015
016
043
050
066
072
096
145
172
178
189
192
197
198
206
220
254
283
285
313
324
336
343
348
353
394
400
418
442
444
Minor Characters
031
039
045
067
080
084
135
140
165
185
188
199
202
203
209
216
237
238
239
249
257
260
263
270
286
306
308
328
331
350
355
371
384
395
401
415
416
435
448
453
454
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
Others
The Salesman
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Kang Eun-ji
Park Jung-bae
Ex-wifeM
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Chief Kim
Lee Ju-hong
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Mr. Kim
Choi Woo-seok
Lee Jang-uk
Hwang Jae-hun
Yun Jun-ho
Sea Captains
Sea Captain Park
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-wooN
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Hwang In-ho's wife
Kang Sae-byeokNP
Kang Sae-byeok's motherP
Kang Cheol
Park Mal-soon
Park Mi-yeong
Broker
Dentist
Season Three37th Squid GameMain Characters
007
120
124
125
149
222B
246PG
333
388
456
Major Characters
039
044
096
100
203
226
306
336
353
Supporting Characters
006
009
172
192
197
202
230H
232
235
260
349
377
380H
390C
394
400
411
418
442
447
Minor Characters
024
028
047C
048
080
084
105
119
134
145
154
163
191
209
241
276
296
310
312
334
344
350
359
435
440
443
448
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Kim Jung-ho
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
VIPs
Richard
Jennifer
John
Jack
Kevin
Others
Waiters
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Choi Woo-seok
Kim Mu-dong
Sea Captains
Park Yeong-gil
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Kang Sae-byeokH
Kang Sae-byeok's mother
Kang Cheol
Oh Il-namF
Park Man-cheol