Title: 125 (37th Squid Game)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/125_(37th_Squid_Game)
--------------------------------------------------
Park Min-su





							Finalist
							
						



							Player
							
						



















Name
Park Min-su


Aliases
Player 125 (37th Squid Game)The Junkie (by Im Jeong-dae)The trash (by Hwang In-ho)Drug addict (by Lee Myung-gi)By ThanosMy BrotherMy Lil BoyBoyCuteFucking coward (in a hallucination)By Nam-gyuFreaking DorkAIDorkShitheadPoor Min-suMy Bro Min-suGoddamn Son of a Bitch (in a hallucination)


Relationships
AlliesSe-mi † (close friend, teammate and protector; distant after third round of Mingle; attempted saviour and avenged)Gyeong-su † (friend, teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon and Mingle)Kwon Byeong-su † (ally in Bathroom Fight; protector)Player 072 † (ally in Bathroom Fight; protector)Player 145 † (ally in Bathroom Fight; protector)Player 401 † (ally in Bathroom Fight; protector)NeutralThanos † (former ally, teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon and Mingle; enemy during the Bathroom Fight)Lee Myung-gi † (former ally and protector; killer against his will)Seong Gi-hun † (savior in Jump Rope and indirect ally in Sky Squid Game)Player 015 † (partner in Mingle; savior)Seon-nyeo † (unaware victim in Hide and Seek)Enemies/rivalsNam-gyu † (former teammate; arch-nemesis, tormentor and indirect victim)Player 096 † (attempted indirect killer)Im Jeong-dae † (indirect savior)Kim Gi-min † (attempted killer)Lee Seung-won †Kim Yun-tae †Player 039 †


Affiliation
Squid Games37th Squid GameThanos' team (deserter)Team XTeam O (formerly, unwillingly in the second vote)Seekers


Born
1997[1] (age 27)[2]


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
November 7, 2024[3]Sky Squid Game


Cause of death
Pushed off square pillar by Lee Myung-gi with the help of metal pole and fell down to his death.



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Brown


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Lee DavidUnknown replacement extra  (Six-Legged Pentathlon)





First appearance
Last appearance




"001" (icon)
"⭘△☐"







Voting




Round 1
Round 2
Round 3















Round 3 Tie
Round 4
Round 5













Go to hell! What did I do to deserve this? What the hell did I do? I was just trying to do the best I could. I didn't know, okay? I didn't know things would turn out this way!
Park Min-su to the other finalists in "⭘△☐"

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Nam-gyu(Player 124)
Player 126







Park Min-su (박민수 Bag Min-su?) also known as Player 125, was a timid and nervous young man who became a participant in the 37th Squid Game. He eventually became one of the finalists of the competition.
After being recruited into the Thanos Team, Min-su formed a bond with his teammate Se-mi, who often defended him against the other team members. Following her death at the hands of Nam-gyu, Min-su was left devastated and guilt-ridden for failing to save her.

Contents

1 Personality
2 History

2.1 Backstory
2.2 Season 2

2.2.1 "001"
2.2.2 "Six Legs"
2.2.3 "One More Game"
2.2.4 "O X"
2.2.5 "Friend or Foe"


2.3 Season 3

2.3.1 "Keys and Knives"
2.3.2 "The Starry Night"
2.3.3 "It's Not Your Fault"
2.3.4 "222"
2.3.5 "⭘△☐"


2.4 Fate


3 Kill count
4 Trivia
5 Behind the scenes
6 Appearances
7 Gallery

7.1 Season 2
7.2 Season 3
7.3 Unknown replacement extra (Six-Legged Pentathlon)
7.4 Promotional
7.5 Behind the Scenes


8 References


Personality[]
Min-su was timid, insecure and used to do what others told him. His cowardly nature made him unwilling to challenge anyone who seemed threatening, but he also felt attachment to people who were good to him and wanted to help them. Due to this attachment, he was shown to be very dependent on said people, often staying by them for safety.
When Min-su teamed up with Se-mi, he became very close to her and decided to listen to her when she told him what to do and what not to do. When Thanos kicked Gyeong-su out of the team, Min-su worried about him and upon arriving at a room, Min-su asked Nam-gyu about Gyeong-su. Min-su got also easily scared by the sight of the pools of the blood of the eliminated players, which made that Thanos have to make him react. Min-su's worst actions were usually caused by fear and stress, which prevented him from thinking clearly, like when Se-mi told him to go together and Min-su left with Thanos and Nam-gyu, leaving Se-mi alone. Upon seeing that Se-mi managed to survive, Min-su felt both relieved and guilty for leaving her alone.
Despite being a coward, Min-su was capable of being brave, like when he decided to vote for X in the third voting to protect himself from Thanos and Nam-gyu, who were pressuring him to vote for O. When Thanos and Nam-gyu threatened him to join them in the next voting and Lee Myung-gi protected him along with Team X, Min-su hid among the team and he fled to the Dormitory when a fight started. Min-su also showed fear and possibly guilt upon hearing that people died in the fight. After the riot he was noticeably one of the X voters who stuck with their vote instead of switching to O unwillingly in fear showing Min-Su was not a complete coward.
When a riot broke out, Min-su grabbed a bottle to protect himself and he hid. Seeing Se-mi being attacked by Nam-gyu, Min-su threw the bottle to help her and he froze in fear while Nam-gyu killed her. After the riot ended, Min-su cried over Se-mi's death and he felt guilty for being too cowardly to save his only friend in the games.
Min-su felt completely resentful towards Nam-gyu for killing Se-mi and he got annoyed by his teasing against him and Se-mi. This shows that despite his cowardice, he still wasn't tolerant of Nam-gyu's behaviour, showing that he has a reasonable moral compass. In Hide and Seek, Min-su found Thanos' drug necklace, which Nam-gyu dropped and remembering his teasing, Min-su decided to take a drug to gain the courage he needed to beat the game and make Nam-gyu pay, which allowed Min-su to kill Seon-nyeo when she mocked him and Se-mi's death. Due to being on said drugs, his anger was more prominent and active of his decisions, making him mildly impulsive.
Min-su also proved to be cunning, since in Jump Rope, Min-su tricked Nam-gyu by using Thanos' necklace, which Nam-gyu was desperately seeking, Min-su threw the necklace onto the bridge, which forced Nam-gyu to go for it and when he discovered that the necklace was empty, Nam-gyu realized that Min-su tricked him and he fell to his death, making him pay for everything that he did, to which Min-su is visibly satisfied. During the game, Min-su was shown to be more confident than before, showing fearless and almost giddy behaviour due to the drugs.
In Sky Squid Game, Min-su had a hallucination with Se-mi in which she told him to come with her and Min-su agreed to do so before falling to his death, allowing him to rest in peace after avenging his friend. This showed that Min-su was still haunted by his guilt of Se-mi's death, wanting to believe that she wasn't upset with him.

History[]
Backstory[]
Min-su was a victim of the Jeonse deposit rental scam, leading to immense amounts of debt he could not sustain. At some point in 2024, The Recruiter approached him and invited him to join the Squid Games to win money and pay off his debts, so Min-su decided to participate in the 37th Squid Game as Player 125. On the night of October 31, 2024, Min-su was picked up by a van and taken to The Island where the games were being held.

Season 2[]
"001"[]
Min-su woke up in the Dormitory along with the other Players, he signed a consent form, took his player photo and was taken to the hall of the first game. The first game was Red Light, Green Light and Min-su managed to stay still along with the most of the players when it was revealed that those who lost would be killed, Min-su followed the instructions of Seong Gi-hun (Player 456 and winner of the 33rd Squid Game) and was 1 of the 365 who managed to win the first game. Upon returning to the dormitory, a Voting was held to decide whether to continue or end the game. Min-su voted for "X" to end the games, divide the money among everyone and leave, but the vote ended 182-183 by Hwang In-ho (Player 001; who was the Front Man of the Squid Games and entered the games as "Oh Young-il") and the games continued.

"Six Legs"[]
During the second game, Six-Legged Pentathlon, Se-mi (Player 380) approached Min-su to team up. Se-mi asked Min-su what his name was and why he was in the games. Then Choi Su-bong / Thanos (Player 230), Nam-gyu (Player 124) and Gyeong-su (Player 256) arrived and Thanos started talking to Se-mi, Thanos told Se-mi to join his team (Team 56) since she was attractive. Nam-gyu didn't want to have a woman on the team, but Thanos made him shut up and told Se-mi that she would be safe with him. Se-mi considered the offer after discovering that Thanos was a famous rapper, but she mentioned that she was talking to Min-su about joining her, to which Thanos said that it was no problem, that Min-su could join and he asked who he was. Se-mi stepped aside and introduced them to Min-su. Thanos asked Min-su his name and Min-su introduced himself, Nam-gyu thought that Min-su looked like an idiot, but Thanos made him shut up and welcomed Min-su to the team.
After the deaths of Teams 1 and 2, Min-su noticed that Nam-gyu was taking a drug and Nam-gyu asked if there was a problem, to which Min-su said nothing. Nam-gyu asked Min-su to tell him his name again, so Min-su repeated it and Nam-gyu told him, Se-mi and Gyeong-su not to be cowards, that way they can survive, win the money and get out of there. Se-mi told him to worry about himself and that he was a prick who needed to get high so he wouldn't get scared, which annoyed Nam-gyu.

"One More Game"[]
Min-su chose to play Gonggi and accidentally made a mistake, which angered Nam-gyu, but fortunately, Min-su managed to complete the minigame eventually and the team managed to won the second game. Back in the Dormitory, Nam-gyu begins insulting the other surviving groups and asks Min-su to count them. Min-su reluctantly agrees but is stopped by Se-mi, she candidly insults Nam-gyu, pointing out the Guards will soon tell them how many died. Thanos stops the argument by talking to Min-su and pointing out both he and Nam-gyu born in 1997 and were 27 years old, so he does not have to follow his orders. When voting begins, Min-su is pressured by his team, apart from Se-mi, into voting "O".
Once voting has ended and "O" wins, Min-su approaches Se-mi and refers to her as "Noona", asking why she chose to vote "O". Then she reveals that she fears the outside world more and she tells him not to call her "Noona" since she was born in 1998 and Min-su in 1997, but asks him not to tell the rest of the team.
The next morning, Min-su sees Thanos and Nam-gyu taking drugs, Se-mi arrives and tells Min-su not to even think about taking a drug, because once you take it, you never go back to normal again. Min-su nods and Se-mi tells him that if he can get out of there, never to get involved with those assholes again. Min-su asks her why she wanted to be with Thanos and Nam-gyu, to which Se-mi tells him that because people like them are easier to deal with, then Min-su asks her what about him and why she wanted to team up with him, to which Se-mi tells him that she thought that he wouldn't deceive her. Se-mi adds that she will leave when the Prize money reaches ₩200,000,000 and suggests Min-su think about if he wants to leave, since she doesn't think that he will last long in that place.

"O X"[]
In the third game, Mingle, Min-su survives the first round of groups of 10, by staying with Thanos, Nam-gyu, Se-mi and Gyeong-su. In the second round the number is 4, Thanos thinks about which members of his team to take and Gyeong-su tries to beg for his life, but then, Thanos kicks Gyeong-su to kick him out of the team and yells the team to run. Thanos and Nam-gyu run toward the rooms while Min-su worries about Gyeong-su, but Si-mi sees that they have to leave quickly or they'll die, so she grabs Min-su by his arm, takes him with her and they run after Thanos and Nam-gyu. Thanos' team makes it to Room 41 and closes the door.
When time runs out, Min-su asks Nam-gyu about Gyeong-su, to which he angrily hits Min-su and says "Talk to me like I'm your friend again and I'll leave you out there next time.". Then Thanos (after his drug wears off) asks the team where Gyeong-su is, suddenly shots start to be heard and Thanos realizes that Gyeong-su stayed outside. Thanos pushes Nam-gyu away, looks through the peephole and screams in horror; regretting leaving Gyeong-su alone. Gyeong-su is shot in the chest and is eliminated. Stepping outside, Min-su is frozen and shocked by the pools of blood, but Thanos brings him back to reality by telling him to come with the team.
In the third round the number is 3, Nam-gyu asks Thanos if he would choose Min-su or Se-mi and Thanos tells them to play Rock paper scissors to choose who comes with them, Se-mi tells Min-su to come with her and extends her hand, but Min-su panics due to the pressure of the moment and extends 2 fingers; making it look like scissors against paper. Thanos and Nam-gyu tell Min-su that he won and take him with them, leaving Se-mi alone while she and Min-su are shocked by what happened. Min-su, Thanos and Nam-gyu leave Room 35, Min-su sees that Se-mi survived by joining Players 400 and 418 and entering Room 31, they both look at each other. Se-mi walks away and Min-su feels guilty for leaving her alone.
In the fourth round the number is 6 and Min-su manages to survive alongside Thanos and Nam-gyu. In the fifth and final round the number is 2, Thanos grabs Nam-gyu and Min-su is left alone, but fortunately, Min-su joins Player 015 and they manage to get to a room in time.
Upon returning to the Dormitory, Thanos is glad that Min-su is still alive, hugs him and tells him that he was worried about him, Nam-gyu mentions when Min-su beat Se-mi in rock, paper, scissors and they tell him to play one more game, but Min-su is distracted thinking about Se-mi. Then the Pink Guards arrive, announce that there are 100 Players left and the third vote begins, Se-mi decides to join to the side of Gi-hun and votes for "X"; which angers Thanos and Nam-gyu. Thanos tells Min-su that he wants to play just one more game and Nam-gyu assures him that he convinced Min-su to play one more game and leave that place. Min-su's turn comes and Nam-gyu pressures him to vote for "O" (allegedly for the final time but Nam-gyu previously stated the third game would be the last they stayed for and has now proved he lied about that) while Se-mi sees what Nam-gyu is doing and she shows that idiot the middle finger. Min-su's fear makes it difficult for him to choose, but he finally decides to do what Se-mi told him, he joins Gi-hun's side and votes for "X". Nam-gyu gets shocked to see Min-su protecting himself from them and he votes for "O" while Se-mi is happy that Min-su stood up for himself.
Min-su goes to the bathroom to hide from Thanos and Nam-gyu, but they find him and try to intimidate him into voting with them. Fortunately, Lee Myung-gi (Player 333) arrives and defends Min-su. Myung-gi asks Team X for help and warns them that Thanos and Nam-gyu threaten Min-su to join them, Thanos asks Team O for help and declares that Team X wants to attack them. Then Min-su leaves the cubicle and hides among the Team X, Thanos tells him to come, but Myung-gi gets in the way to protect Min-su. Afterwards, Thanos and Nam-gyu mock Kim Jun-hee (Player 222) which makes Myung-gi furious and ignite a fight between Team O and Team X, giving Min-su the chance to escape to the dorm. During the fight, Thanos tries to kill Myung-gi but Myung-gi stabs him with a fork in the chin and neck, which causes Thanos to bleed to death, freeing Min-su, Myung-gi and Jun-hee from Thanos forever.

"Friend or Foe"[]
In the dorm, Min-su hides between the bunk beds and it's announced that the fight claimed the lives of 5 players, making it 95 players left and the prize increases to ₩36,100,000,000 (making it ₩380,000,000 for each player), the survivors of the fight arrive at the dormitory and both teams blame each other for starting the fight. Then, teams count their players and discover that 2 players from Team X died and 3 players from Team O died, which means that Team O has 47 players left and Team X has 48 players left. As a result, Team X has the advantage in the vote and they believe that if no one changes their mind, they will be able to go home.
When the lights went out, Team O attacked Team X to kill them and gain more votes. Min-su slipped between the bunks, grabbed a glass bottle to protect himself and hid in a high bunk. Min-su saw Se-mi being attacked and cornered by Nam-gyu, so Min-su threw the glass bottle to help Se-mi, the bottle falls to the floor, breaks and Min-su quickly hid, Nam-gyu turns to see who threw the bottle and gets distracted, allowing Se-mi to grab the shards and fight, but Se-mi is overpowered and Nam-gyu stabs her to death, much to the horror of Min-su, who freezes in fear.
When Gi-hun incites a revolution and goes off with a group of players to find the Front Man, Min-su stands over Se-mi's corpse, crying silently.

Season 3[]
"Keys and Knives"[]
During Hide and Seek, Min-su pulls out a red ball, which means that he has become a member of the Seekers. The Hiders are given a key, the Seekers a knife and the guards allow players to switch teams should they wish to do so.
Min-su remains seated and anxious when Nam-gyu approaches him and asks if he has ever killed anyone. Nam-gyu tells Min-su that if he can't, then he should change teams since he's very good at hiding, Nam-gyu tells him that he looked for him during the riot and couldn't find him. Nam-gyu tells Min-su that he made the right choice by hiding and mocks Se-mi for treating him like an idiot. Min-su then turns to look at Nam-gyu and realizes that it was Min-su who threw the bottle and that he saw him kill Se-mi.  Nam-gyu mocks Min-su for hiding like a coward and watching Se-mi die, declaring that she liked him. Nam-gyu gives the advice to Min-su to "be a man this time" before walking away.

"The Starry Night"[]
When the game begins, Min-su begins walking through the maze and finds the corpse of Park Jae-cheol (Player 235); who was killed by Myung-gi and Nam-gyu. Min-su remains too scared to kill anyone when he suddenly finds Thanos' cross (which Nam-gyu dropped). Min-su remembers what Nam-gyu told him about that he was too cowardly to help Se-mi and to act like a man, so Min-su takes 1 of the last 2 pills to gain the courage that he needs to win the game [as well as taking the cross and final pill with him].
Min-su, having begun to hallucinate intensely from never having used drugs before, begins searching for Se-mi to protect her from Nam-gyu. Min-su meets Seon-nyeo (Player 044) and asks her if she has seen Se-mi. Min-su describes Se-mi and begs Seon-nyeo to help him find her to protect her from Nam-gyu, Seon-nyeo panics and hides in a room, so Min-su leaves. Seon-nyeo discovers that the room contains an exit door and that she needs all 3 types of keys to open it. She teams up with Im Jeong-dae (Player 100), only for Jeong-dae to betray her by pushing away from the door, taking away the circle key when he leaves and closing the door, leaving the shaman trapped. Seon-nyeo panics, desperately tries to open the door and curses Jeong-dae for betraying her, grabbing Min-su's attention, who enters the room and asking the woman if she has seen Se-mi.
With 3 minutes left, Min-su tells Seon-nyeo that Nam-gyu is trying to kill Se-mi and begs her to help him find her, Seon-nyeo tells Min-su that he should have died a long time ago, but he survived, taking advantage of Se-mi and she insults him (like Nam-gyu). Then Min-su starts hallucinating that Seon-nyeo is Nam-gyu and that he insults him for hiding and watching Se-mi die, declaring that she liked him, Seon-nyeo arrogantly asks Min-su who he thinks she is and how dare he, which enrages Min-su, Seon-nyeo demands Min-su get lost, but then Min-su stabs her with his knife, thinking that she's Nam-gyu. Min-su stabs Seon-nyeo twice, killing her and inadvertently passing Hide and Seek as a seeker. Min-su then hallucinates a bloodied and dying Se-mi in the place of Seon-nyeo's corpse, freaking out after thinking he killed her. He even hallucinates the Announcer announce "Player 380 eliminated" (instead of "Player 044 eliminated") repeatedly, with her voice becoming increasingly demonic.

"It's Not Your Fault"[]
In the 5th voting round, Min-su watches Nam-gyu voting "X" and after some hesitation, votes "O" in contempt, most likely wanting Nam-gyu to die for killing Se-mi. Later on in Jump Rope, he asks Nam-gyu if he is doing okay. When he was met with hostility from Nam-gyu, Min-su then revealed he had the cross in his hands. Despite Nam-gyu desperately apologizing for everything, Min-su throws the cross onto the bridge and dares Nam-gyu to cross the bridge and retrieve it, also calling Nam-gyu a "fucking loser". Nam-gyu chases after the cross, hoping to get his fix again. After haphazardly crossing the bridge and reaching the necklace, he is horrified by the revelation that it is empty, causing him to get tripped by the rope and fall to his death. Min-su stares down at Nam-gyu's corpse and smiles, having exacted his vengeance on Nam-gyu for bullying him and killing Se-mi.

"222"[]
After this, Min-su stands idly on the Jump Rope platform behind Lee Myung-gi and Player 306 for a long while. Immediately after killing Nam-gyu, he looks at the last pill he has, but doesn't consume it yet. He is horrified by Kim Gi-min sadistically kicks Player 349 off the platfrom to her death as she tried to forfeit her attempt at playing the Jump Rope game after the path was blocked by Player 096. Min-su got terrified enough by this that he finally made the choice to consume the second pill. After Kim Gi-min passes, Min-su begins his attempt to cross the bridge with his shoes taken off and held on both of his hands, stalling at the gap. He then hallucinates Cheol-su smiling at him, joyous at the sight and finally crossing the gap and passing when he sees Seong Gi-hun waving at him to hurry up.
Afterwards, Min-su is among the 9 finalists and returns to the dormitory with both of his shoes still in his hands. As a result of taking the last of Thanos' drugs, Min-su starts to show signs of withdrawal, being shaky and anxious at the sight of the other Players being angry at Kim Jun-hee's baby being made a player and drinking copious amounts of wine and eating nothing for the final dinner. After the clue for the Sky Squid Game is given, a vote is held, with him voting X after forced to vote by an impatient Im Jeong-dae after Min-su hesitated. He goes to sleep with the other remaining players except Gi-hun to play the final game tomorrow. 

"⭘△☐"[]
On the 6th game, Min-su is reduced to a nervous wreck, going to the corner to the opposite of Gi-hun and Jun-hee's baby while Myung-gi and the other O voters decide the strategy to win the game. He hallucinated Thanos dangling over the edge, offering him pills. Suddenly the hallucination switches to that of Nam-gyu, attempting to drag him down to the abyss and cursing him out for stealing Thanos' cross, demanding its hand-over, with Thanos now starting to talk down to him for using drugs and calling him a coward. Min-su responds by stomping on their faces (in reality stomping on thin air), which is noticed by Myung-gi.

Fate[]
     Death of Min-su  
Se-mi... I'm sorry... I'm sorry, Se-mi...
Park Min-su's last words to a hallucination of Se-mi in "⭘△☐"
After Myung-gi manipulates the other finalists into sparing the baby and Gi-hun [for the first round], he convinces the group instead to set their sights on Min-su. The majority of players decide they want to vote him out for the first round, as he is suffering from drug withdrawal and is seen as weak, isolated and too unstable to be left alone for too long without further repercussions. That and since they tried to kill an innocent baby they really have no morals whatsoever. 
Min-su starts begging for his life and frantically apologizes to the O voters, before cursing them out and snapping at them for him being treated poorly. He proves to be too uncooperative to simply jump off the platform himself when he curses at Im Jeong-dae and Kim Yun-tae for asking him to commit suicide, snapping at them for treating him poorly. Kim Gi-min demands that someone push Min-su off, only to realise that nobody, himself included, is willing to finish the job. A ton of time passes and Im Jeong-dae starts to freak out as the timer reaches the 3 minute mark.
Myung-gi apologizes, admitting that he was reluctant to kill him, in response to Min-su pleading for his life after grabbing the pole of the centre of the tower and assuming responsibility for killing him. Suddenly, he hallucinates Se-mi stepping towards him, causing him to stop fearing for his life. He becomes emotional upon seeing her again, while she puts her hand out for him to take, telling him to come with her. Min-su grabs the pole in Myung-gi's hands heading at him, thinking that it's Se-mi's hand while being comforted by his apparent second chance from her, leading him to get pushed and fall off the tower to his death below. He placed 9th in the competition.
His body and those of the other finalists were incinerated in the island's explosion.

Kill count[]
Confirmed killsAttempted kills


Character

Information

Image/GIF


"The Starry Night"Hide and Seek


Seon-nyeo(Player 044)

Stabbed twice in the abdomen with a hunting knife after being enraged by a hallucination of Nam-gyu.




"It's Not Your Fault"Jump Rope


Nam-gyu(Player 124)

Lured him onto the bridge via throwing the empty cross necklace on it, which led to him falling off of the bridge and dying once he realized there was nothing inside of it.







Character

Information

Image/GIF


"O X"Mingle


Se-mi(Player 380)

Indirectly and unintentionally attempted by abandoning her during round 3 alongside Nam-gyu and Thanos; out of anxiety.




"Friend or Foe"Special Game


Nam-gyu(Player 124)

Attempted to drop a glass bottle on his head in an attempt to save Se-mi.



Trivia[]
He was the first of the finalists to die. His 33rd and 28th counterparts are Player 067 and Player ???.
The only finalist to die with their jacket still on in the 2020 edition of the games was Kang Sae-byeok, the circumstances of whose death parallel that of Min-su's in ways noted above.
Min-su is the only post-Mingle player to change his vote to O willingly and not out of fear or manipulation.
He is the 1st player to have said his name to another player in the 37th Squid Game
Him and  333 are the 2 players to have voted X 4 times and O 2 times
In most of the votes their votes are opposite: 333/Myung-gi votes 0 in the first and sixth vote, Min-su votes X in those. Min-su votes 0 in the second and fifth vote, Myung-gi votes X in those. The only votes they vote the same way are the third and fourth votes.
In an error, Min-su In a BTS scene In Six-legged pentathlon Appear With an O patch, despite he is seen with a X patch in The episode.
Nam-gyu and his number being 124 and 125 plays a factor
In Season 2, Nam-gyu remains voting O while Min-su reverts to X after Mingle.
However, in Season 3, they have opposite votes after Hide and Seek, such as Nam-gyu voting X and Min-su voting O.
Nam-gyu is the first player to die in Jump Rope due to Min-su luring him by throwing the necklace on the bridge and indirectly causing his death as he retrieves it.
Min-su is the first player to die in Sky Squid Game after getting pushed with a metal pole by Myung-gi.
Their reactions in the first seconds of the 5th and 6th games are also very similar, both look down at the ground as they are experiencing withdrawal; but it is unknown why Nam-gyu was looking down, as Min-su was hallucinating getting more drugs as well as people he detested [either other players from the Squid Game or people Nam-gyu knew before the Games]. However, Nam-gyu could've also hallucinated the same thing, giving a sort of twisted symbolism that Min-su will end with the same fate as Nam-gyu.
Min-su is the only shown main character to not speak in an entire episode, the episodes being "Friend or Foe", "Keys and Knives" and "222".
If Min-su survived Sky Squid Game's first round somehow, he likely would have been the lunchbox, making it a somewhat good thing that he died first instead of dying painfully.
Min-su and Lee Seung-won are the only finalists to never learn the fact that Lee Myung-gi is the father of Kim Jun-hee's baby before their deaths.
Min-su was the smartest player in Jump Rope because he took his shoes off and spread his arms out as a technique for extra balancing, and managed to indirectly kill Nam-gyu by using his addiction: drugs.
Min-su shares his given name with the winner of the 7th Squid Game in 1994, Kim Min-su.
Min-su is the only finalist who never had a direct interaction with Gi-hun. The closest they come to interacting is when Gi-hun helps Min-su pass jump rope in order to try to reach Jun-hee, but he passes off-screen when she watches Myung-gi enter the bridge to cross it. Gi-hun also does nothing to help him after the last vote despite them being the only 2 X voters or in the final game.
Min-su is the highest-placing member of Thanos' team. Ironically, Se-mi warned him previously he wouldn’t last long in the games and he then outlives her by two games.
It's possible that Min-su was very skilled at gonggi. When he failed, the timer maked 3 minutes left, but when Nam-gyu was playing Paengi, the timer marked 2 minutes left. If we consider the time players take from getting from one point to another (wich is around 8 seconds), the fact that they cheer when each member completes a minigame (wich is around 2-4 seconds), and the time Nam-gyu takes to wrap the string around the Paengi (wich is unkown, but the Behind-The-Scenes footage shows him wrapping slowly), Min-su potentially completed gonggi in less than a minute.
When Player 435 dies, we can see him on the bridge with shoes on. After 353, 039 and 203 pass, we see him barefoot, holding his shoes.
Both of his kills are major characters.
Funnily enough, they both have unknown surnames.
They also both played the Paengi/Spinning Top game in the Six-Legged Pentathlon.
His name (not counting his surname) starts with the letter M, which is the thirteenth letter of the alphabet. Similarly, Nam-gyu starts with N which is the letter after M. In this case, Nam-gyu's number is smaller than Min-su's which means he joined earlier [it is likely though NOT CONFIRMED that the player numbers are in order of who phones the Recruiter's number first and agrees to be in the games so Gi-hun was the last player to do that in 2020, Player 455 second last and so on and so forth], meaning that this was possibly a coincidence considering the fact that it's the other way around. This also symbolizes the fact that Nam-gyu is always first at everything, N (Nam-gyu) comes in front of M (Min-su), he's the 124th player to join while Min-su is the 125th, as well as him going first in Jump Rope [though that last part wasn't really Nam-gyu's decision and was only because he wanted the drug back]. Another exception to this is that Min-su plays the third mini-game in the Six-Legged Pentathlon, Gong-gi while Nam-gyu goes after him with the fourth mini-game Spinning Top/Paengi. To add on, Nam-gyu's actor, Roh Jae-won, even said that his main motivation was "the thrill of being number one," which is ironic considering that being "number one" (going first in Jump Rope) cost him his life.
When he puts his X patch on in the final vote, it is lopsided. He also does not fix his bowtie before the final game, all due to his drug withdrawal.
He is the last player in the 12X range to be eliminated in the 37th squid game.
He is the last player to vote X in the series and in the Korean Squid Games as well.
He is the only pill user to not speak English words, As Nam-Gyu and Thanos are both shown speaking English on the pills
Since Min-su placed 9th in the competition, his 33rd Squid Game counterpart is Player 407. Both of them are responsible for the deaths of a very religious player [Player 044/Seon-nyeo and Player 244 the Christian pastor, respectively]. They also some slight personality resemblances, both being very nervous and somewhat twitchy [in Min-su's case particularly in the final game] and both killed the religious player quickly and impulsively [though it was necessary for Min-su to live in his case and in Player 407's case 244 had just killed another player and may still hold up the line in Glass Bridge].
Min-su and his Hide and Seek victirm, Seon-nyeo, are each the 8th last player of their respective gender to die in the Games. The 7 male players who outlive Min-su are Player 336 [Lee Seung-won], Player 353 [Kim Yun-tae], Player 203 [Kim Gi-min], Player 100 [Im Jeong-dae], Player 039, Player 333 [Lee Myung-gi/MC Coin/The Amazing Myung-gi] and Player 456 [Seong Gi-hun of Ssang Mung-dong]. The 7 female players who died after Seon-nyeo are Player 028 and Player 119 [both were failed taggers who were eliminated when the timer in Hide and Seek ran out], Player 149 [Jang Geum-ja], Ms. Player 163, Player 349, Player 448 and Player 222 [Kim Jun-hee].
His votes are xoxxox. If you don’t count the  tiebreaker, his votes changed every time he voted, probably making him the player with the most votes changes.
His face when his corpse is shown upclose, appears to be smiling, likely due to that Min-su thought he was finally with Se-mi.
Since Min-su placed 9th out of 456 players, he made it to the top 2 percent [1 out of 50] in the ranking of players and how long they were alive/in the game.
It's unknown what would have happened to Min-su if Gi-hun had accepted and killed the other finalists. While In-ho said to "kill the trash who want to kill you and the baby", Min-su is the only other contestant who voted X and didn't intend to murder the baby. But, In-ho did say that only Gi-hun and the baby will remain, making Min-su's fate unclear. Since it seems the Sky Squid Game could not be played with only three players either Min-su could probably have survived this way and In-ho was just being forgetful: the reason he gave to Gi-hun to kill the other players because they were going to kill Gi-hun and the baby doesn't apply to Min-su because he voted X and wasn't part of the group of six visibly and obviously talking on the other side of the room.
Min-su was the only O voter after Jump Rope and before the final vote that didn't shout desire to kill the baby.
Min-su has the characteristic of being hidden or distant in several scenes; when Thanos and his group wanted to recruit Se-mi they didn't notice him because Se-mi was covering him, during the headcount he is barely visible, when the teams in Hide and Seek were first completed and at several moments in Jump Rope he is somewhat hidden and when the finalists take the elevator he is hidden between Yun-tae and Gi-min; this reinforces his role as a player who usually goes unnoticed.
Behind Player 453, Player 084, Player 260, and Kim Jun-hee, he was the fourth player not to scream when falling to his death. Players 453, 084, and 260 all died off screen, and Jun-hee intentionally fell from the platform.
Min-su is played by a replacement actor during Six Legged-Pentathlon. Same as Se-mi. It's very likely that his actor, Lee David, wasn't present during the filming of those scenes. Hence why an extra is there.
He is the second last player [of the taggers] known to pass Hide and Seek [only Player 456/Seong Gi-hun passed after him] and also the second last player to pass Jump Rope with only Player 333 [Lee Myung-gi/MC Coin/The Amazing Myung-gi] going in Jump Rope and passing it after Min-su completed it: this is the opposite of Player 096 who was the second player to pass both Hide and Seek and Jump Rope.
Se-mi's warning that he would not last much longer in this place was quite ironic since Se-mi only survive one game [the third game, Mingle] after that interaction while Min-su survived the third, fourth and fifth games and became a finalist, beating here out by two games and roughly 80 player spaces.
Behind the scenes[]
Park Min-su was portrayed by Lee David and an unknown temporary replacement extra during the Six-Legged Pentathlon. In the English dub, he is voiced by Koo Park and French dub by Marc Maurille.

Appearances[]
Season Two
"001" (icon)
"Six Legs"
"One More Game"
"O X"
"Friend or Foe"
Season Three
"Keys and Knives"
"The Starry Night"
"It's Not Your Fault"
"222"
"⭘△☐"
"Humans Are..." (indirectly mentioned)
Gallery[]
Season 2[]
Min-su's icon.Min-su looking at Thanos.Min-su getting invited to Thanos’ Team in the Six-Legged Pentathlon.Nam-gyu shaking Min-su for failing at Gonggi.Min-su as Nam-gyu plays Paengi.Min-su sitting with the rest of the Thanos Crew.Min-su looking at the piggy bank.Nam-gyu telling Min-su to vote O.Min-su voting O.Min-su during the second vote, being one of the few O voters to not chant for one more game.Min-su receiving food.Min-su talking with Se-mi.Min-su walking up The Stairs to Mingle.Min-su entering Mingle.Nam-gyu telling Min-su to not act like they are friends.Ditto.Min-su looking at Se-mi.Min-su looking at a pool of blood in Mingle.Min-su and Player 015 entering a room in the final round of Mingle.Min-su returning to the dormitory after Mingle.Min-su getting a great big hug by Thanos and Nam-gyu.Min-su going against Nam-gyu and voting X.Min-su pressing the X.Min-su scared of Thanos and Nam-gyu trying to get to change his vote.Min-su being back up into a corner by Thanos.Ditto.Min-su hiding behind Player 401 and Player 072.Min-su after hearing Thanos was killed.Min-su looking at Player 406's corpse before grabbing his glass bottle.Min-su trying to kill Nam-gyu to protect Se-mi.Min-su horrified while Se-mi is murdered below by Nam-gyu.Min-su crying while looking at Se-mi's corpse.
Season 3[]
Min-su watching the Prize money go up in the Piggy bank after the Revolt.Min-su holding a red ball.Min-su looking at Nam-gyu after he talks about Se-mi.Min-su entering the Hide and Seek area.Min-su looking at Jae-cheol's corpse.Min-su finding Thanos' necklace.Min-su taking a drug from Thanos' necklace.Min-su asking Seon-nyeo if she's seen Se-mi.Min-su staring at Seon-nyeo through the door.Min-su finding Seon-nyeo later on.Min-su hallucinating Nam-gyu instead of Seon-nyeo.Min-su growing angry.Min-su stabbing Seon-nyeo in the stomach.DittoMin-su freaking out after believing that he just killed Se-mi.Min-su's icon after Hide and Seek.Min-su looking at Nam-gyu before voting O to spite him.Min-su voting O to get back at Nam-gyu after the latter voted X.Min-su walking to the fifth game.Ditto.Min-su preparing to confront Nam-gyu.Min Su throws Nam-gyu's necklace to the middle of the bridge.Min-su after throwing the necklace.Min-su waiting for Nam-gyu to go on the bridge.Min-su looking at Nam-gyu.Min-su looking down at Nam-gyu's corpse, smiling.Min-su in Jump Rope.Ditto.Min-su distanced from the rest of the players.Min-su balancing on the bridge.Min-su smiling as he looks at Cheol-su.Min Su's drug induced hallucination over the Cheol-Su animatronic.Min-su jumping over the gap.Min-su before sitting down.Min-su looking worried and tired at the dinner table.Min-su drinking from his cup.Min-su going to vote.Min-su pressing the X.Min-su replacing his O finalist patch with an X finalist patch.Min-su looking at Im Jeong-dae's team strategizing.Min-su walking up The Stairs to Sky Squid GameMin-su arriving at the last game.Min-su in Sky Squid GameMin Su losing his mind over his Thanos and Nam-Gyu hallucinations.Ditto.Min-su hallucinating, looking at Thanos.Min-su realizing he is about to be eliminated.Min-su trying to ward them off.Min-su yelling at the other finalistsMin-su holding out his hand for the pole, believing it to be Se-mi.Min-su crying and smiling, going with Se-mi.Park Min-su's death.Min-su's corpse from the top of the pillar.Min-su's corpse after being pushed off the tower by Lee Myung-gi.Min-su hallucinating Nam-gyu in BTS.
Unknown replacement extra (Six-Legged Pentathlon)[]
The other Player 125 as Hyun-ju's team gets ready to play.The other Player 125 cheering after Hyun-ju's team crosses the finish line.
Promotional[]
Min-su in the "Welcome Players" teaser.Min-su's promotional Season 2.Ditto.Min-su's promotional Season 3 Jump Rope.Min-su beside Kang Dae-ho.
Behind the Scenes[]
Lee David with director Hwang.Lee David in Jump Rope.Lee David after wrapping up his filming.
References[]

↑ "One More Game"

↑  Under the traditional Korean age system, which was changed in June 2023, a year is added to a person's age after birth, meaning he would be 28 in 2024. His age, as stated, is given in international years.

↑ During the 37th Squid Game, which began on November 1, a day was skipped when the players tied the vote after Mingle, with Jump Rope occurring on November 6, and the final game happening on November 7.

Season Two37th Squid GameMain Characters
001
007
120
149
222
230
333
388
390
456
Major Characters
044
047
095
100
124
125
196
226
246
256
380
Supporting Characters
004
006
009
015
016
043
050
066
072
096
145
172
178
189
192
197
198
206
220
254
283
285
313
324
336
343
348
353
394
400
418
442
444
Minor Characters
031
039
045
067
080
084
135
140
165
185
188
199
202
203
209
216
237
238
239
249
257
260
263
270
286
306
308
328
331
350
355
371
384
395
401
415
416
435
448
453
454
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
Others
The Salesman
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Kang Eun-ji
Park Jung-bae
Ex-wifeM
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Chief Kim
Lee Ju-hong
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Mr. Kim
Choi Woo-seok
Lee Jang-uk
Hwang Jae-hun
Yun Jun-ho
Sea Captains
Sea Captain Park
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-wooN
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Hwang In-ho's wife
Kang Sae-byeokNP
Kang Sae-byeok's motherP
Kang Cheol
Park Mal-soon
Park Mi-yeong
Broker
Dentist
Season Three37th Squid GameMain Characters
007
120
124
125
149
222B
246PG
333
388
456
Major Characters
039
044
096
100
203
226
306
336
353
Supporting Characters
006
009
172
192
197
202
230H
232
235
260
349
377
380H
390C
394
400
411
418
442
447
Minor Characters
024
028
047C
048
080
084
105
119
134
145
154
163
191
209
241
276
296
310
312
334
344
350
359
435
440
443
448
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Kim Jung-ho
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
VIPs
Richard
Jennifer
John
Jack
Kevin
Others
Waiters
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Choi Woo-seok
Kim Mu-dong
Sea Captains
Park Yeong-gil
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Kang Sae-byeokH
Kang Sae-byeok's mother
Kang Cheol
Oh Il-namF
Park Man-cheol