Title: 14 players
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/14_players
--------------------------------------------------
These are the supervised players from the 14 out of 201 players who did not return after Red Light, Green Light game in the 33rd Squid Game. The Frontman ordered a manager to supervise those who did not return and keep him posted. These are the only 33rd Squid Game  players who, most likely, are not deceased. 

Contents

1 Confirmed non-returners

1.1 Player 066
1.2 Player 090


2 Possible non-returners

2.1 Possibly last seen in the voting:
2.2 Player 117

2.2.1 Player 333


2.3 Weren't seen in Episode 3

2.3.1 Player 073
2.3.2 Player 081


2.4 Weren't seen from Episode 3 to Episode 5:

2.4.1 Mun Jang-ho (Player 002)
2.4.2 Player 414


2.5 Miscellaneous:

2.5.1 Player 036




3 Trivia


Confirmed non-returners[]
Player 066[]
He appeared in the Red Light, Green Light and Hell episodes, confronted a manager with a few others, and celebrated that the games ended.
No other extras/actors wore the 066 suit in The Man with the Umbrella or later, so Player 066 was never seen after the temporary termination of the Squid Games.
However, his icon faded amongst the panic in the first game.

---

Player 090[]
Was last seen in the voting and voted for X, judging by his reaction seen below.
However, his icon also faded in the first game, though he wasn't seen in the game.

Possible non-returners[]
Possibly last seen in the voting:[]
Player 117[]
She also appeared in the Red Light, Green Light and Hell episodes.
She was seen in the background during the voting session.
Player 117 was never seen or mentioned after the temporary termination of the games, after she voted for X, judging by her reaction after the termination of the games.
Although her icon faded in Sugar Honeycombs, her actress was seen before Sugar Honeycombs, we however don’t know if it’s her, as no tag is seen.

---

Player 333[]
Tag was last seen in the voting.
He was also seen panicking in Red Light, Green Light, where his icon faded.
He voted to continue the games, judging by his reaction when the games were terminated.
His actor was seen in the food lines in Episode 3, but we don't know if it's him.

---

Weren't seen in Episode 3[]
Player 073[]
Was seen in the voting, where she begged to the be released, and didn't appear until the Special Game with a stunt along with being announced 'pass' in Sugar Honeycombs and her icon fading after the Special Game.

---

Player 081[]
Was seen in the voting and then didn't appear until the Special Game.
He then disappears again until Marbles, where he had a major scene.

Weren't seen from Episode 3 to Episode 5:[]
Mun Jang-ho (Player 002)[]
Was seen in voting and didn't appear until his death in Marbles.
Could have died in Marbles as his icon faded there and his elimination was announced, with having a major death scene too.
Was seen cheering after the voting ended, despite voting to continue the games.
He was seen dying twice in Red Light, Green Light however, which makes his fate ambiguous.

---

Player 414[]
Was seen in the voting and didn't appear up until his death in Marbles.
However, could've died in Marbles as his icon faded there and his elimination was announced, with having a major death scene too.
Voted X during the voting, he then cheered too when the games were terminated.

Miscellaneous:[]
Player 036[]
He was last seen on the Red Light, Green Light finish line.
His icon was lit up until after the Special Game.

Trivia[]
The non-returner list can be updated once one of those players is discovered appearing in episode 3, an example being Player 008.
It's possible that some of them did want to return to the games, but they were caught by their creditors before they could, as almost happened with Jang Deok-su.
It is also possible that some of the supervised players were killed by loan sharks, and that is why they did not return to the games.