Title: 170 (33rd Squid Game)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/170_(33rd_Squid_Game)
--------------------------------------------------
Player 170






Name
Unknown


Aliases
Player 170 (33rd Squid Game)


Affiliation
Squid Games33rd Squid Game


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
June 9-10, 2020Red Light, Green Light


Cause of death
Shot by a sniper after running towards the doors



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Dark brown


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Kwon Jae-hun





Only appearance




"Red Light, Green Light"







Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 169
Player 171







Player 170 was a participant in the 33rd Squid Game.  

Contents

1 History

1.1 Fate


2 Trivia
3 Behind the scenes
4 Gallery


History[]
Player 170 suffered a severe amount of debt, unable to pay it off. They were then approached by a man in a suit, who offered them to play Ddakji. And if they won, they would get a handsome cash prize of 100k won. They fail and get slapped repeatedly a lot of times, but eventually win and recieves their money. After that, they were given a strange business card with a phone number on it with the specific date to contact it and a location. After dialing the number at the specified time and location, a van then picked him up. They entered the van, saw the rest of the unconscious players, and were knocked out by an unknown gas. They then woke up in a large dormitory with 455 other players. Confused, they woke up from their bed and witnessed the fight between Kang Sae-byeok and Jang Deok-su from afar. When the Pink Guards stepped in and stopped the fight, the TV shows multiple players being slapped. Convinced that Player 170 will recieve the prize money, they signed the contract, had their photo taken and then proceeded to the first game; Red Light, Green Light. They were confused, and the arena was massive. But as the instructions were spoken by the announcer, they understood it clearly and made a bit of progess in the 1st game before the chaos erupted.

Fate[]
Following by the death of Player 306, a massive genocide began to emerge. With multiple players panicking and attempting to escape, Player 170 was one of those players who attempted to run. Unfortunately, they were shot early in the intial chaos, as we can see their icon blacked out early.

Trivia[]
Player 170 shares his icons with Jo Su-jin and Player 276.
Both him and his Season 2 counterpart died in their first games respectively.
However, Player 170 from Season 2 lasted much longer and even survived the initial chaos.
Player 170 is the first player that doesn't have an icon shown on screen if we go by numerical order.
Player 170's number is a noncototient integer.
Behind the scenes[]
Player 170 was portrayed by Kwon Jae-hun. Despite his icon never being shown, a pattern of icon matches confirms this is his actor. 

Gallery[]
Player 170's blank icon.