Title: 222 (episode)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/222_(episode)
--------------------------------------------------
Season Three


Keys and Knives

The Starry Night

It's Not Your Fault

222

⭘△☐

Humans Are...


This article is about the episode. For the other uses, see 222 (disambiguation)


222





							Title
							
						



							Episode
							
						






















Season
Episode
Overall




3
4
20





Episode Information

Duration
66 minutes


Air Date
June 27, 2025


Writer
Hwang Dong-hyuk


Director
Hwang Dong-hyuk




Episode Guide


Previous
Next




"It's Not Your Fault"
"⭘△☐"






Player 456. Do you still have faith in people?
Hwang In-ho to Seong Gi-hun in 222 222 is the 4th episode in Season 3 of the Netflix TV series Squid Game. It is the 20th episode of the series overall.
Contents

1 Synopsis
2 Plot
3 Starring

3.1 Main
3.2 Guest Starring
3.3 Recurring
3.4 Minor cast


4 Deaths
5 Trivia
6 References


Synopsis[]
Even as Gi-hun supports Jun-hee amid rising tensions, she must make a pivotal decision. Before the final game, the Front Man gives Gi-hun an ultimatum.

—Official Netflix synopsis
Plot[]
Seong Gi-hun asks Player 096 why he pushed Player 312, to which 096 explains that he did it to win the game and reveals that his plan is to make that no one else can cross the bridge, that way only the 2 of them will be left, they can vote "X" and leave with the Prize money (each with being ₩22,700,000,000).
Player 276 manages to cross the bridge, and he confronts 096, but 096 kicks 276 and makes him fall to his death. 096 yells to the other players that none of them will make it across and that the game is over for them. Gi-hun begs him to let the others through, but he refuses and tells him to help him kill the others. As the others hesitate to move forward, more players fall to their deaths, notably players 209 and 163. Some players urge the person standing behind the next person on the other side to push him—Im Jeong-dae (100)—off the bridge so they can move forward. Players 192 and 442 are frustrated as they can't keep jumping in the middle of the bridge or they're all going to die. Player 100 offers Player 096 half of his prize money and promises to throw the players behind him down with him. Player 442 was appalled when he heard this and threatens to kill Jeong-dae, but 192 grabbed behind him to balance himself, and as a result, both players were knocked and fell to their death. Seeing as things are going under, Player 349 urges Player 377 behind her to go back. When he tries, he stumbles and falls. Player 349 runs back but is kiced off by Kim Gi-min (203). Everyone is shocked by this revelation, but 203 reminded everyone he did them all a favor. After all this commotion, Min-su takes the last pill.
On the other side, Gi-hun again urges Player 096 to finally make way and threatens to push him down if he doesn't move aside – then he would have all the money for himself. Player 096 then makes way, allowing several other players, to safely reach the other side, only Jeong-dae and Lee Seung-won (336). Gi-hun sees Jun-hee trying to jump, but she can't make it because of her injury. There are only 7 minutes left. Myung-gi, worried and desperate tries to persuade her to come over with him, but she refuses. She accuses him of killing Hyun-ju with the knife she entrusted to him. He insists that he didn't know she was her friend, let alone helping them. He only wanted to protect her and her child. He didn't care about the money, that's why he killed her. He will help her. But she shows him her ankle and asks him if he will carry her. He stares at her hopelessly, but she says she never wants to see him again. Devastated by her hurting words, he turns away and walks toward the bridge.
On the other side, Player 096 jumps at Gi-hun and apparently tries to push him off. He hits him countless times, blocking the bridge once again. Kim Yun-tae (353) cries for the both of them to move, as more players got knocked off the bridge. As soon as players 435, 448 and 260 were eliminated. Gi-hun gouges 096's eye with his finger and manages to throw him on the bridge, with the rope throwing him off. Now Min-su is on the bridge and, in a drug-induced frenzy, he makes it. Finally, Myung-gi and Player 306 are the last to cross the bridge, with Jun-hee still at the starting point. 306 hesitates as he reaches the gap, and Myung-gi is fueled with anger because 306 will lead them to their deaths. 306 lost his balance and clutches onto the bridge's edge in between the gap. But unwilling to help him, Myung-gi jumps over Player 306, until he also falls, and reaches the other side. Gi-hun wants to go back to get Jun-hee, but she refuses. In tears, she jumps off the platform to her death. Both Gi-hun and Myung-gi tremble as the game concludes.
The VIPs discuss whether Jun-hee's baby should be considered an independent participant. The Front man suggests letting it participate in the next game as player 222, because that would make the vote and the next game more interesting. Everyone agrees to include the baby, therefore the baby takes over her mother's place as Player 222.
Back in the dormitory, Player 336 asks player 353 how much money each of the eight surviving players will get, after calculating the shared prize, 353 confirms that each player would receive ₩5.6 billion each. Both confirm that the money per person would be more than enough for them. 336 indicates that he intends to vote X in the next vote. They also assume that everyone else except Jong-dae would also be able to pay off their debts with the winnings. When the manager announces the results of the fifth game, Gi-min and Player 039 were confused that 9 players survived and the shared prize money is less than expected. After a quick roll call, the Manager revealed that Jun-hee will be replaced by her baby. Upon learning about this, others were shocked by this and asked their prize would now be smaller, and the Manager said that they are speaking correctly, and immediately others became furious about this and started yelling at the manager because they think it's against the rules, and then Jeong-dae suggests killing the child to get the money back, and everyone agrees and goes off enraged to kill a baby. Player 203 and others come to kill the child, but are stopped by guards. From this point on, the players are no longer allowed to attack or kill each other.
A feast is laid out in the dormitory. A worker gives the baby a bottle. Then the vote is held. Beforehand, the manager informs them that they can decide for themselves which three players they want to disqualify in the final game. The others will then automatically win. In the vote, only Gi-hun and Min-su vote to stop the game. The baby is counted as an abstention.
After the feast, everyone except Gi-hun and Min-su discuss choosing the two of them and the child, with Myung-gi pretending to join them. During the night, Gi-hun is summoned by the front man, who offers him a deal: he will give him a knife to eliminate the remaining players in order to ensure his survival and that of the baby. Then he takes off his mask and Gi-hun realizes with horror that it is In-ho. He grabs the knife and seems to want to lunge at him. But he cannot bring himself to do it, especially since In-ho makes it clear to him that the game would take place anyway. In-ho asks him if he still believes in the good in people.
Woo-seok wants to tell the police at the station what happened on the island and why he broke into Captain Park's house, but they don't believe him. Instead, the police inform Captain Park by phone about the break-in at his house. On the boat, Jun-ho and his group discuss which island is the game island. Woo-seok manages to inform Jun-ho, but he has already been warned by the police call. He informs the captain of boat two and orders him to kill everyone on his ship. One of the crew asked Park if he wanted noodles which Park nodded yes. Then he pulls out a submachine gun and shoots almost all of Jun-ho's team members except Kim and Jun Ho. As Kim crawls And Park shoots at Kim more Kim warns Park to turn back. At the last moment, Jun-ho manages to shoot him. He manages to patch up his last comrade Kim, who is injured. The captain of boat two informs the Front Man that he has killed everyone, but that boat one is no longer responding.
The Officer does not intervene, even though he knows that Gyeong-seok is hiding under the mask of soldier 16 when he and other soldiers begin patrolling the outer compound. However, he sends a pursuit team after them. At first, Gyeong-seok and No-eul manage to escape in a motorboat. Then the Officer contacts No-eul by radio. He wants her to bring Gyeong-seok back and makes it clear that he knows he is the father of the sick little girl. Ne-eul turns the boat around and returns to the island, but leaves Gyeong-seok behind and advises him to head for the mainland at full speed. The masked officer orders his soldiers to kill both of them. No-eul re-enters the compound through an exhaust vent.

Starring[]
Main[]
Lee Jung-jae as Seong Gi-hun (Player 456)
Lee Byung-hun as Hwang In-ho (The Frontman)
Wi Ha-joon as Hwang Jun-ho
Im Si-wan as Lee Myung-gi (Player 333)
Park Gyu-young as Kang No-eul (Guard 011)
Jo Yu-ri as Kim Jun-hee (Player 222)
Jeon Seok-ho as Choi Woo-seok
Song Young-chang as Im Jeong-dae (Player 100)
Lee David as Park Min-su (Player 125)
Lee Jin-wook as Park Gyeong-seok (Player 246/Guard 016)
Roh Jae-won as Nam-gyu (Player 124; corpse only)
Guest Starring[]
Choi Gwi-hwa as Kim Gi-min (Player 203)
Park Jin-woo as Lee Seung-won (Player 336)
Lee Kyu-hoi as Kim Yun-tae (Player 353)
David Sayers as VIP Richard
Jane Wong as VIP Jennifer
Bryan Bucco as VIP John
Jordan Lambertoni as VIP Jack
Kevin Yorn as VIP Kevin
Recurring[]
Woo Jung-kook as Player 039
Park Jae-hong as Player 084
Lee Suk as Player 096
Han Tae-eun as Player 163
Jang Tae-min as Player 192
Lee Won-chul as Player 209
David Kim as Player 260
Kim-Choi Yong-joon as Player 276
Lee Kyung-min as Player 306
Kim Geum-sun as Player 349
Shin Hee-chul as Player 377
Park Jong-young as Player 435
Seo Ho-chul as Player 442
Lee Ji-yu as Player 448
Oh Dal-su as Park Yeong-gil
Sung Do-hyun as Mercenary Team Leader Kim
Park Hee-soon as Masked Officer
Choi Jae-hwan as Kim Mu-dong
Lee Dong Joo as unnamed mercenary
Minor cast[]
Song Wook-kyung as Detective Song
Deaths[]
Player 276 (Fell to his death after being kicked off the finishing platform by Player 096 during Jump Rope)
Player 209 (Knocked off by the bridge by the rope and fell to his death during Jump Rope)
Player 163 (Knocked off by the bridge by the rope and fell to her death during Jump Rope)
Player 442 (Knocked off by the bridge by the rope and fell to his death during Jump Rope)
Player 192 (Knocked off by the bridge by the rope and fell to his death during Jump Rope)
Player 377 (Knocked off by the bridge by the rope and fell to his death during Jump Rope)
Player 349 (Fell to her death after being kicked off the finishing platform by Kim Gi-min during Jump Rope)
Player 084 (Knocked off by the bridge by the rope and fell to his death during Jump Rope)
Player 435 (Knocked off by the bridge by the rope and fell to his death during Jump Rope)
Player 448 (Knocked off by the bridge by the rope and fell to her death during Jump Rope)
Player 260 (Knocked off by the bridge by the rope and fell to his death during Jump Rope)
Player 096 (Knocked off by the bridge by the rope and fell to his death after Seong Gi-hun gouged out his eye and threw him back onto the bridge during Jump Rope)
Player 306 (Lost his grip on the bridge and fell to his death during Jump Rope)
Kim Jun hee (Fell to her death after voluntarily walking off the starting platform during Jump Rope)
Park Yeong-gil (Shot in chest with a harpoon gun by Hwang Jun-ho)
5 Unamed mercenaries (Shot repeatedly with MP5 submachine gun)
Sunshine Capital mercenaries (killed by Captain Ko)
Trivia[]
This episode features the continuation of the Jump Rope game.
Similar to Kang Sae-byeok in season one, Kim Jun-hee is the latest female player die in the game.  (33rd Squid Game & 37th Squid Game respectively.)
The Man with the Umbrella, Gganbu, Front Man, 001, and this episode are the only episodes that reference a character.
This episode and 001 are the only episodes with numbers as the title.
This episode and It's Not Your Fault are similar to the Season 1 episode: VIPS.
Player 276 is the first death of this episode.
Before Season 3 aired, there were many rumors of an episode titled after a player's number, although it was Dae-ho's number instead of Jun-hee's.
In Latin Spanish dub, Jun-hee said Hyun-ju instead of her to Myung-gi.
In Japanese dub, the female announcer says the player’s number in Korean, when they passed or eliminated, the same as Jun-hee’s elimination announcement and Myung-gi’s passing announcement.
References[]
Squid GameSeason 1
Red Light, Green Light
Hell
The Man with the Umbrella
Stick to the Team
A Fair World
Gganbu
VIPS
Front Man
One Lucky Day
Season 2
Bread and Lottery
Halloween Party
001
Six Legs
One More Game
O X
Friend or Foe
Season 3
Keys and Knives
The Starry Night
It's Not Your Fault
222
⭘△☐
Humans Are...