Title: 226 (37th Squid Game)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/226_(37th_Squid_Game)
--------------------------------------------------
Kim Yeong-sam






Name
Kim Yeong-sam


Aliases
Player 226 (37th Squid Game)Young man (by Im Jeong-dae)Rude (by Park Jung-bae)Dumbass (by Kang Dae-ho)


Relationships
AlliesIm Jeong-dae † (best friend, rival in Hide and Seek)Player 442 † (friend)Player 192 † (friend)Kim Gi-min †Lee Seung-won †Kim Yun-tae †Player 096 †Player 296 †Player 202 †Player 285 † (ally; teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 428 † (ally; teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 023 † (ally; teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Nam-gyu † (ally in special game)NeutralPlayer 376 † (partner in the 4th round of Mingle)Player 418 † (former ally; situational enemy; attempted victim)Park Yong-sik † (former enemy)Kim Jun-hee † (situational enemy; attempted victim; indirect victim)Jang Geum-ja † (situational enemy; attemped victim)EnemiesSeong Gi-hun †Kang Dae-ho †Park Jung-bae †Oh Young-ilPlayer 359 † (attempted victim)Cho Hyun-ju † (situational enemy, attempted victim; killer)


Affiliation
Squid Games37th Squid GameTeam OIm Jeong-dae's teamSeekers


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
November 5, 2024[1]Hide and Seek


Cause of death
Stabbed in the heart by Cho Hyun-ju



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Dark Brown


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Lee Sung-woo





First appearance
Last appearance




"001"
"⭘△☐" (file)







Voting




Round 1
Round 2
Round 3















Round 3 Tie











Oh, fuck that, don't let him scare you! Ddakji. Red Light, Green Light. Spinning Top! These are kids' games. None of this is actually hard. Plus, look. There's still 255 of us. And that means, over half the players got this far! We've come all this way already, right? So, let's just play one more game!
Kim Yeong-sam convincing the players to play one more game  in "One More Game"

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 225
Kim Su-ho(Player 227)







Kim Yeong-sam (김영삼 Gim Yeong-sam?), also known as Player 226, was a participant in the 37th Squid Game. He was a close ally of Im Jeong-dae, who rallied the players to continue playing throughout the games. He eventually turned on him prior to the fourth game, in which he was eliminated.

Contents

1 Personality
2 History

2.1 Fate


3 Kill count
4 Trivia
5 Behind the scenes
6 Appearances
7 Quotes
8 Gallery

8.1 Season 2
8.2 Season 3
8.3 Promotional
8.4 Behind the scenes


9 References


Personality
Hey, Gramps! You're good at that kind of thing, aren't you? Hiding, like a little rat?
Kim Yeong-sam dissing his former best friend Im Jeong-dae right before Hide and Seek in "Keys and Knives"Yeong-sam, like many members of Team O, is a greedy and psychotic man, who crosses the line to win as much money as possible. In the Special Game, he shows his true and evil nature, being maniacal and ruthless to murdering members of Team X. Where he was seen grinning showing no remorse for the people who were killed. He is young and physically fit, having completed the first three games and fighting with the players of Team X. He doesn't care if people die during the games, as he actively campaigned for the continuation of the games, encouraging players to vote O. Yeong-sam is also shown to have no fear of participating in the games and showed his confidence, such as in Hide and Seek, when he encountered Jang Geum-ja and Kim Jun-hee and were ready to kill either of them. Yeong-sam is also a cunning and impulsive player. He did not have true loyalty to Im Jeong-dae, as evidenced by the threats before the start of hide and seek. Yeong-sam also showed his cunning by wanting to use Seong Gi-hun as a finalist to earn money, as he said at the first vote and asking Seong Gi-hun for details of the next games, and agreeing with Jeong-dae not to spread this information among other players to increase the prize pool. At the beginning of the game, Kim Yeong-sam seemed like a reasonable sceptic, questioning Seong Gi-hun's words, but gradually he began to lose his mind due to his overconfidence, greed and aggression. It's noticeable Yeong-sam did not consider Jeong-dae a friend, only a temporary ally who benefited him because they did not even know each other before the games showing he didn't really care about his own team members as there death's would have made him more money.
It's also noteworthy that Yeong-sam was very ecstatic, provocative, and maniacal, from his stims, talking loudly, and jumping around to look for Jeong-dae after hearing about him, to openly provoking a near-fight with Kang Dae-ho in the dormitory and arrogantly remarking that if Dae-ho is a Marine, he'd be in the Special Forces. This is presumably from his perception of Dae-ho as very weak, because it obviously implies he saw himself as above Dae-ho and even is full of mockery to be the first to verbally make fun of his tattoo. His ecstatic manners are evident in exaggeratedly yelling as he clapped for winning the vote after the rebellion, not being afraid to vocally speak up, smiling widely and/or grinning in the background of most things, and being the second to provoke the Xs after Im Jeong-dae during the X O confrontation. It's also extremely apparent that Yeong-sam was very deranged, he didn't seem to realise that he himself could just as easily lose the game and die as he didn't think the games were hard since they were games for children. He thrived on tormenting the Xs with the same reasons as above and flashing his slasher smile while sneaking over to the Xs during the special game, with a fork was between his teeth, after the Special Game he intimidated Player 448 which caused her to unwillingly change her vote something he grinned about (Even though Team O was going to win the revote anyway.) and then kissing his knife when he walked into the Hide and Seek arena eager to kill anyone.
Yeong-sam's ego is also very high, examples being when he was arguing with Jung-bae and being sceptical of Gi-hun's involvement in the games, he said to Jung-bae that he kisses his mama and asks what he's gonna do, and then taunting Dae-ho even when the latter revealed he was a Marine (to be fair, he wasn't). His most egotistical, cocksure, and self-confident action was when he got a knife handed to him by the guards right before Hide and Seek, he made an off-hand remark to Im Jeong-dae about the latter being a rat who's only good at hiding, despite most of the time being a bootlicking psychopath to Jeong-dae, and knew very well he was higher than him in the Team O hierarchy. He is unafraid of ditching allies and even trying to harm them, much like in the cases of  Jeong-dae and Player 418 (though in the former's case, it was only verbal). Yeong-sam was a character who aspired to survive and win no matter what.
According to actor Lee Sung-woo, from an interview: I saw Kim Yeong-sam as someone who wasn’t clearly good or evil. He changed depending on his surroundings—which, in a way, reflects something deeply human. As I played him, I kept wondering, “What kind of desires would Kim Yeong-sam have in this moment?” and “What would I do if I were in his shoes?” It made me think a lot about how thin the line can be between instinct and morality.

History
     Yeong-sam shown getting slapped by the Recruiter.  Is this asshole a friend of yours?
Kim Yeong-sam asking Jung-bae during the first game in "001"By the way, how did you know they were gonna shoot at us. You work for these guys?
Kim Yeong-sam asking Seong Gi-hun about the first game in "001"
Kim Yeong-sam was recruited by a recruiter at Jonggak Station. He had ₩1.9 billion worth of debt and chose to enter the Squid Games in order to win large amounts of prize money. When his name and his debt were shown by the manager in the third episode, he appeared annoyed. During the announcement of Im Jeong-dae biggest debt, Yeong-sam jumped up to try to see him and asked who he was. When Im Jeong-dae (Player 100) explained that in order to have a credit of 10 billion won, one needs to be someone serious, it was noticeable how Yeong-sam applauded. Before the start of the Red Light game, Green Light, Yeong-sam shouted at Seong Gi-hun and Park Jung-bae because they were blocking the passage on the stairs: "Hey, keep moving, you re blocking the way." While Seong Gi-hun was shouting about what needs to be done to survive, Yeong-sam stood next to Park Jung-bae and asked if he knew Seong Gi-hun: "Is this asshole a friend of yours?" During the game, he hid behind Seon-nyeo and Im Jeong-dae. After completing the first game, during the announcement of the prize amount, Kim Yeong-sam watched the Prize money in the Piggy bank with fascination, while in the dormitory when the manager announced the amount for all the games, Kim Yeong-sam asked him if one player reached the end, he would take all the prize money.  During the first vote, Yeong-sam expressed his distrust of Gi-hun, asking him how he knew that people would be shot at and he stated that Gi-hun was in cahoots with the game staff. Park Jung-bae blamed Kim Yeong-sam for the insult, and said that he should thank Gi-hun, instead of calling him a liar. Yeong-sam asked why Jung-bae was getting into the conversation. Kim Yeong-sam started teasing him until Jang Geum-ja intervened and calmed them down.Wait a minute. If everyone else died, then how did you survive? Unless... you're saying you were the only winner?
Kim Yeong-sam to Seong Gi-hun in "001"When Seong Gi-hun confessed to playing games, Yeong-sam asked if everyone died, how Gi-hun was able to survive, adding that Gi-hun was the only finalist. He and player 100 wanted to make money from the games, arguing that the Players had nothing to fear if there was a finalist among them. Yeong-sam was in a crowd of players who wanted to know the details of the next game. He agreed with Im Jeong-dae's opinion that there is no need to share information with other players in order for the cash prize to increase. After Gi-hun announced information about the next game, Kim Yeong-sam remembered that the simplest shape is a triangle.
Kim Yeong-sam, like the other players, was in Gi-hun's dream and shouted at him. When it turned out that the second game would not be Dalgona, he and Im Jeong-dae accused Seong Gi-hun, called him a psycho, and Kim Yeong-sam suggested that Jeong-dae should put the team together.

Yeah, don't bother. Why are we even trying to reason with this crazy bastard? In the end, we should've seen through his bullshit.
Kim Yeong-sam to Im Jeong-dae in "Six Legs"
During the gathering of the players in the Six-Legged Pentathlon, he brought Player 023 onto their team. He was tasked to complete Spinning Top, which he successfully completed on his first attempt.

     Kim Yeong-sam completing Paengi Doligi on his first attempt.  Hey, look. It's the team with that nutcase.
Kim Yeong-sam to Im Jeong-dae's team in "One More Game"Yeong-sam and Jeong-dae were unhappy by the fact that Seong Gi-hun's team survived in Six legs. During the announcement of the prize amount after the second game, Kim Yeong-sam expected more money, he said that this was not the case. During the second vote, Kim Yeong-sam objected to Hwang In-ho's statement and actively advocated for the continuation of the games. He said: "Oh, fuck that! Don't let him scare you." Supporting Jeong-dae, and together they began shouting for the continuation of the games.
     Yeong-sam and Im Jeong-dae encourage players to play one more game.  
During Mingle, he was shown walking towards the platform. After that he's shown during the 6 people limit, where Yeong-sam and Jeong-dae push out Kang Dae-ho and his group out as they already had 6 players at their location. He survived the third game with his allies. When 2 people were required per door, he went to a door with his ally Im Jeong-dae. At the third vote, you could see how Kim Yeong-sam was happy for every player who clicked the "O", and he was unhappy for the players who clicked the "X".

Okay, so let's stay and test that theory out. See which side loses more, instead of just running away like some fucking wussie.
Kim Yeong-sam to Kang Dae-ho in "O X"After the players voted after the third game, he, Im Jeong-dae, me, and many other people formed a new alliance. The O team and X the team start arguing, in which Yeong-sam starts arguing with Kang Dae-ho and openly mocks him after Kang Dae-ho says he used to be in the marines and even showing his marine tattoo, with Yeong-sam saying in response: "Oh, yeah? Okay, well, if you're a Marine, then I'm fucking Special Forces, you lying sack of shit!". Then Lee Seung-won said to all the Xs that if they want to go home that desperately, why should they stuff their faces with dried gimbap, it will better if all them starved to death. The dispute provoked a conflict. Yeong-sam stood in front and bullied other players, but it did not come to a fight.
Oh, yeah? Okay, well, if you're a marine, then I'm fucking Special Forces, you lying sack of shit!
Kim Yeong-sam mocking Kang Dae-ho who showed off his tattoo in "O X"
He found out about the fight in the bathroom. When it turned out after the count that there were more dead people on the O's side, Yeong-sam asked Jeong-dae, asking: "Are you sure?". Jeong-dae's responded in a quiet manner, "I triple-checked the count." Then Player 203, Kim Gi-min asked them about the number of people Team X had lost. After counting the players, he and the other players who voted for the continuation of the games developed a plan of attack. During the blackout, he, Jeong-dae, Nam-gyu, and other players quietly made their way to Team X's side. During the special game, he was among the attackers; judging by the traces of blood on his face, on the clothes, and the metal beam and fork that Yeong-sam used as a weapon, he managed to eliminate an unknown x voter. Yeong-sam was also seen fighting with Player 359 using a metal bed frame. Kim Yeong-sam did not join the rebellion leaded by Seong Gi-hun against the guards to end the games. During the uprising, Kim Yeong-sam sat with Jeong-dae, listening to the sounds of gunfire, and later they watched Kang Dae-ho return to the dormitory to get ammunition. Jeong-dae asked Yeong-sam what Dae-ho was doing, Yeong-sam replied that he did not know, and said that he just came in.    Yeong-sam and his team laugh at Kang Dae-ho who showed off his Marine Corps tattoo.  When the coffin was brought into the dormitory, Yeong-sam and Jeong-dae went to see who was inside. After that, Yeong-sam and the rest of his team members looked at Gi-hun. When Gi-hun approached the soldiers and tried to shoot himself, Yeong-sam watched him in disgust.Ah, so that means that earlier... "WHY DIDN'T I DIE?!" All that shit was an act. Wow. Talk about a twisted freak.
Kim Yeong-sam mocking Seong Gi-hun after the failed rebellion and the re-vote in "Keys and Knives"
After that, Yeong-sam watched the prize fund grow with a smile. The first player to vote was player 448, and Yeong-sam said: "We're not going to hurt you so vote freely". which intimidated her causing her to change her vote. Where he and Jeong-dae were happy that she unwillingly changed her vote to O along with many other O voters At the beginning of the voting after the uprising, Kim Yeong-sam was pleased because he knew that the games would continue. After the voting ended, Yeong-sam and his group passed by Gi-hun, Yeong-sam began to mock Gi-hun, mimicking him of his crash out and he and his team clapped and thanked Gi-hun for having the other X members killed as they go back to their beds. It was unknown that Yeong-sam and his team saw Seon-nyeo get violently attacked by Gi-hun for making fun of his dead friends, shocking the rest of Team O.     Yeong-sam mocking Gi-hun.  Before Hide and Seek started, he caught a red ball, becoming one of the seekers with the mission to kill the hiders. After explaining the rules of the game, Yeong-sam began to argue with the manager, claiming that it was easier for the players of the blue team to win, because they could hide and leave the hall, he believed that the blue team had an advantage. This caused Lee Seung-won and Player 096 to agree with him, which further fueled the complaining, making Im Jeong-dae more frustrated and worried. The manager then told Yeong-sam and the other seekers that they will be given knives that they can use to eliminate the hiders with. Because of this, the hiders were scared about the seekers coming to kill them with a knife, and that Im Jeong-dae added on by saying that they should be given a shield at least, and even told Jeong-dae that he knew he was going to hide since Jeong-dae is from the blue team and Kim Yeong-sam says he hides like a rat, referencing that Jeong-dae got scared during lights out and hid under the bunk bed when the guards appeared, and unlike Kim Yeong-sam, who participated in the attack on Team X in special game, Jeong-dae remained behind hiding and using Yeong-sam as a bodyguard. Yeong-sam was unhappy and said that the blue players should just hide well and that Hide and Seek was easier for them. Before the game started, Yeong-sam warmed up and practiced with a knife with Player 442, and got satisfied with Player 192 who was able to switch with Player 440.
Kim Yeong-sam was the second to enter the maze after Kim Gi-min and before Player 296. At the beginning of the maze game, Yeong-sam and several other members of the red team went down the stairs and separated, Yeong-sam started walking through the maze, he came across a dead end, then turned around, went the other way and saw Player 418 who closed the door behind him, Yeong-sam ran after him.
While wandering through the maze, Yeong-sam ran into Park Yong-sik, who was afraid of him. Yeong-sam showed that he needed to be quieter, said that he was also a tagger, and moved on. After that, while chasing Player 418, Yeong-sam saw Cho Hyun-ju, Kim Jun-hee, Jang Geum-ja and chased after them.

Fate
Just move! Okay, listen. The little bitch is the only one I'll kill. Or... You'd just hand me grandma instead.
Kim Yeong-sam's last words before getting attacked by Cho Hyun-ju in "The Starry Night"
In Hide and Seek, he entered the arena and found Cho Hyun-ju, Jang Geum-ja, and Kim Jun-hee. Hyun-ju stood in front of Jun-hee and Geum-ja to protect them, while Yeong-sam demanded that she let him kill either the pregnant woman or the old woman. Hyun-ju made it clear that if he wanted to kill them, he would have to go through her. She prepared to fight as Yeong-sam brandished his knife and lunged at her. Hyun-ju grabbed Yeong-sam and slammed him into the wall before pushing her backwards and lunging again. Hyun-ju grabbed Yeong-sam again, and this time rotating him, confusing him before breaking his right arm and throwing punches to the face. Hyun-ju then attempted to disarm Yeong-sam before the latter manages to grab Hyun-ju's hair, pulling her head backwards attempting to snap her neck. However, Hyun-ju quickly overpowered him, beating him down and throwing him to the ground. Yeong-sam begs her not to kill him, then Hyun-ju seized his knife and drove it into his heart killing him instantly, as he struggled and panicked. His elimination was not announced and neither did the announcer call "Player 226, Eliminated", but he was deemed eliminated. He placed 57th in the competition.

Kill count
Confirmed killsAttempted killsIndirect kills


Character

Information

Image/GIF


"Friend or Foe"Special Game


Unknown X Voter

Had a large amount of blood on his face and clothes and he switched his weapon, meaning he almost definitely killed at least one player.





Character

Information

Image/GIF


"Friend or Foe"Special Game


Player 359

Attempted to beat him to death with a metal bedframe alongside Im Jeong-dae; interrupted by the Soldiers charging in to end the fighting.




"The Starry Night"Hide and Seek


Player 418

Chased him down with the intent of killing him with his hunting knife in order to pass the game.




Cho Hyun-ju(Player 120)

Attempted to murder Jun-hee or Geum-ja with a hunting knife to pass the game; later changed his target to Hyun-ju after she fought back.




Kim Jun-hee(Player 222)


Jang Geum-ja(Player 149)



Character

Information

Image/GIF


"The Starry Night"Hide and Seek


Player 359

Indirectly caused by harming him during the Special Game, making him tired and wounded, allowing him to be overpowered by Kang Dae-ho, leading to him failing the game; indirectly shared kill with Lee Seung-won.




"222"Jump Rope


Kim Jun-hee(Player 222)

Indirectly caused by chasing her, which led to her being stressed, leading to her falling down the stairs and spraining her ankle, eventually leading to her inability to complete Jump Rope.



Trivia
Both Kim Yeong-sam and Lee Myung-gi were recruited at Jonggak Station at separate times.
The organizers said that Kim Yeong-sam owes 1.9 billion won, which is roughly $1.3 million USD.
He would've needed to survive Jump Rope and be a finalist in order for his share of the prize money to cover his debt, which would've been about 4.5 billion won ($3 million USD). Once there were approximately only 22 players left he would have enough prize money to cover the debt.
Kim Yeong-sam is the only one who recognized the lie that Kang Dae-ho was not a Marine.
Kim Yeong-sam is the first major character and the first villain among the players to die in the third season.
In the Latin American Spanish and Russian dubs, he has an argument with Park Jung-bae, Kim Yeong-sam said he was older than him, but in reality, the actor playing Park Jung-bae (Lee Seo-hwan) is ten years older than the actor playing Kim Yeong-sam (Lee Sung-woo).
In the English and Korean dub, Kim Yeong-sam cursed in every episode he appeared in.
He completed Paengi on his first attempt, making him the only one to do so on screen out of the main teams.
Surprisingly, he shared the same name (especially in Hangul) as the real life 7th President of South Korea.
Despite the fact that Kim Yeong-sam is a major character (not main character, major), he interacted with a lot of other characters such as Seong Gi-hun, Park Jung-bae, Park Yong-sik, Kang Dae-ho, Cho Hyun-ju, Im Jeong-dae, Kim Gi-min, Nam-gyu, Lee Seung-won and others.
Yeong-sam is one of few characters to have his family name with his name in the credits, as most are without their family names. This is likely due to him only having his name spoken once, similar to Park Mi-hwa, Sim Jae-seok, Jang Do-yeong, and others.
The phrase "One more game", which spread on the Internet and became a meme, is attributed to Im Jeong-dae, but it was first uttered by Kim Yeong-sam.
Kim Yeong-sam indirectly contributed to Kim Jun-hee's death by chasing her group in Hide and Seek and causing her to trip on stairs and break her ankle, which prevented her from passing the Jump Rope game.
Yeong-sam presents several stims during the show, including scratching his head, exaggerating mouth movements, and bouncing on his feet.
Yeong-sam sarcastically mocked Dae-ho that he was in the special forces and was ironically killed by Cho Hyun-ju who was actual special forces soldier.
Yeong-sam lived longer than his counterpart (Player 226 in the 33rd Squid Game, who died in Tug of War), outliving him by one game.
Many assumptions about the imminent death of Yeong-sam in the third season, even before its release, were based on the fact that in the post-credits scene (Jump Rope), Yeong-sam was not next to Jeong-dae, and with the release of the second trailer for season 3, in the scene from the fight between Yeong-sam and Cho Hyun-ju, these the rumours intensified, which eventually turned out to be true.
There was an erroneous theory, with the release of the second trailer for season 3, that in the fight scene from the trailer, where Cho Hyun-ju throws Yeong-sam, there was not Yeong-sam at all, but Yong-sik, this was based on the fact that Yeong-sam's hair looked like curly and Hyun-ju's elastic band seemed to be a piece Yong-sik glasses.
In Hide and Seek, in the scene where Yeong-sam starts looking for the hiding ones, the unreleased soundtrack starts playing, which was not included in the main soundtrack album of Season 3.
For some reason, in the Special Game, Kim Yeong-sam was about to kill Player 359 along with Im Jeong-dae, but the guards intervened just before he could. However, both Yeong-sam and 359 are seen calmly together for a few seconds in Hide and Seek as if nothing had happened.
The blood that appeared on Yeong-sam's face and clothes after the attack on Team X in the Special Game indicates the 100% confirmed murder of an unknown Team X player.
When Hyun-ju killed Yeong-sam she did indirectly avenge any X voter Yeong-sam attacked or killed in the Special Game making his death in the next game karma.
Yeong-sam is the only major player who died in The Starry Night whose corpse does not appear at the beginning of It's Not Your Fault.
He is one of the two characters to cause a death posthumously, the other one being The Recruiter (who posthumously caused the death of all 453 Players in 37th squid game)
All the X players who have a number format of X59 were either attacked or killed by Yeong-sam
During the Special Game, when Nam-gyu is next to Yeong-sam, you can see that Yeong-sam is all covered in red in the thermal scan, which means he is under stress or extremely nervous.
According to Lee Sung-woo, one of his favourite scenes involving Yeong-sam was during Red-light, green light, when he was talking to Park Jung-bae: As if playing a real game, I prepared the lines like ventriloquism and was nervous thinking: "Don't move your eyes or lips," so it was memorable.
The reverse side of Kim Yeong-sam's file was visible when Kang No-eul turned over Player 227's file.
Unlike most other seekers, who encountered easy targets, Yeong-sam encountered Hyun-ju, potentially the strongest hider out there, making him one of the unluckiest seekers.
If Yeong-sam had caught up and killed Player 418, the moment he found him, he would have become the fastest winner of the seekers team.
He was the fourth member of Jeong-dae's team who got eliminated, after Player 285, Player 428, and Player 023.
He is the most minor of the main/relevant characters to appear in every game until death.
He was counted 45th in the Team O headcount.
He provoked Jun-hee's injury. Cho Hyun-ju is to be blamed for Jun-hee's feet injury, which was caused by Yeong-sam who pursued them all. Because of him, Jun-hee couldn't jump in any for the Fifth Game.
Yeong-sam was never officially seen in the show without his Player jacket on, let alone unzipped whatsoever. He's only seen in his basic Player T-shirt once in a BTS image
Kim Yeong-sam is the only major character in the cast who was not shown holding a ball in his hand, in the scene where the characters take the balls, but before the moment where Im Jeong-dae takes out a blue ball and holds it in his hand, we are shown a red ball that does not belong to the rest of the main characters, so this is most likely Yeong-sam's ball, perhaps the moment where we are shown Yeong-sam holding a red ball was cut out, this theory is supported by the fact that we were not shown any additional red balls, except this one, this red ball goes before of the blue ball of Im Jeong-dae, and Kim Yeong-sam and Im Jeong-dae are often next to each other in scenes. This is an extra ball that did not belong to the main characters who received the red balls.Kim Yeong-sam's red ball
Behind the scenes
Kim Yeong-sam was portrayed by Lee Sung-woo. In the English dubbing, Yeong-sam was voiced by John Choi.

Appearances
Season Two
"001"
"Six Legs"
"One More Game"
"O X"
"Friend or Foe"
Season Three
"Keys and Knives"
"The Starry Night"
"⭘△☐" (file)
Quotes
Triangle. Dalgona. Fucking bullshit.
Kim Yeong-sam to Seong Gi-hun in Six Legs
Oh, yeah? Okay, well, if you're a Marine, then I'm fucking Special Forces, you lying sack of shit!
Kim Yeong-sam insulting Dae-ho in O X
Hey, Gramps! You're good at that kind of thing, aren't you? Hiding, like a little rat?
Yeong-sam berating Jeong-dae in Keys and Knives
Gallery
Season 2
Yeong-sam's icon.Yeong-sam on the TV.Yeong-sam getting slapped on TV.Yeong-sam watching himself get slapped on TV.Yeong-sam after Jeong-dae's debt is announced.Yeong-sam jumping around.DittoYeong-sam watching the piggy bank come down.Yeong-sam waiting in line to sign the consent form.Yeong-sam telling Gi-hun that he's blocking the way.Yeong-sam walking past Gi-hun.Yeong-sam going to the first game arena.Yeong-sam asking Jung-bae if he knows Gi-hun.Yeong-sam standing still.Ditto.Yeong-sam running.Yeong-sam getting scanned by the doll.Yeong-sam running.Ditto.Ditto.Yeong-sam behind Seon-nyeo.Yeong-sam just before crossing the finish line.Ditto.Yeong-sam crossing the finish line.Yeong-sam cowering as the guards come in.Yeong-sam watching the prize bank increase.DittoYeong-sam asking the staff about the prize.Yeong-sam listens to the managerYeong-sam arguing with Gi-hun.Ditto.Yeong-sam talking to Gi-hun.Ditto.Yeong-sam cheering.Yeong-sam voting O.Yeong-sam getting mildly irritated during the first vote.Kim Yeong-sam celebrating the victory in the first voting.Yeong-sam in the food queue.Yeong-sam listening to Gi-hun.Yeong-sam after he finds out about Dalgona.Yeong-sam in Gi-hun's dream.Ditto.Kim Yeong-sam after learning that the game is not Dalgona.Yeong-sam saying they shouldn't have believed Gi-hun.Yeong-sam and Jeong-dae, looking for a teamYeong-sam bringing player 023 to his team.Ditto.Yeong-sam listening to Jeong-dae.Kim Yeong-sam completing Paengi.Ditto.Kim Yeong-sam cheering as Player 285 completes Gonggi.Yeong-sam as Jeong-dae completes Jegi.Yeong-sam and his team crossing the finish line.Yeong-sam and his team celebrating after the Six-Legged Pentathlon.Yeong-sam leaving the gaming arena with his team.Kim Yeong-sam in the dorm after the Six-Legged Pentathlon.Ditto.Yeong-sam sitting with his team in BTS footage.Yeong-sam with his allies.Kim Yeong-sam looking at the prize money increase.Yeong-sam and his team bickering about the small increase.Ditto.Yeong-sam saying that more than half of the players are still alive.Yeong-sam chanting for one more game.Yeong-sam encouraging others to join the chant.Yeong-sam going to get food.Yeong-sam entering the Mingle arena with Jeong-dae.Yeong-sam and Jeong-dae from top viewYeong-sam and Jeong-dae as the platform spins.Ditto.Jeong-dae & Yeong-sam kicking out Kang Dae-ho during the forth round.Yeong-sam returning to the platform with his team after the fourth round of Mingle.Yeong-sam and Jeong-dae running to a room in the last round of Mingle.Kim Yeong-sam voting O in the third vote.Yeong-sam watching other players vote.Ditto.Ditto.Yeong-sam after Mi-hwa changes her vote.DittoYeong-sam and Jeong-dae during the third vote.Yeong-sam walking down the stairs in BTS footage.Yeong-sam teasing Dae-ho.Yeong-sam looking at Dae-ho.Yeong-sam and the rest of Team O yelling at Team X.Yeong-sam in the conflict with Team X.Yeong-sam shouting at Team X.Ditto.Yeong-sam staring after the casualties of the bathrooms are announced.Yeong-sam, Jeong-dae, and other members of Team O looking at the prize money increase.Yeong-sam, Gi-min and Jeong-dae counting the players after the Bathroom Fight.Yeong-sam looking at Team XYeong-sam planning Special Game with his allies.Yeong-sam and Nam-gyu preparing to attack Team X.Yeong-sam sneaking over to Team X's side with Nam-gyu.Yeong-sam with a fork in his mouth.Yeong-sam just before charging.Yeong-sam charging at the X players.Kim Yeong-sam fighting with Player 359.Kim Yeong-sam being forced to drop his weapon after the Special Game.Yeong-sam and Jeong-dae hiding from the crossfire.Yeong-sam after Special Game.Yeong-sam, Jeong-dae and Player 418 watching the participants of rebellionYeong-sam and Jeong-dae listening to the gunshots.Yeong-sam and Jeong-dae watching Dae-ho.
Season 3
Yeong-sam watching Gi-hun's coffin be brought in.Yeong-sam walking over to the coffin.Yeong-sam and the rest of Team O look at Gi-hunYeong-sam, Jeong-dae, and Player 192 watching the piggy bank.Ditto.Yeong-sam in the revote.Yeong-sam waiting for Gi-hun's vote.Yeong-sam after the revote ends.Yeong-sam mocking Gi-hun.Ditto in GIF form.Yeong-sam staring at Gi-hun.Yeong-sam and the others applauding.Yeong-sam with food.Yeong-sam and Player 312 looking at the hung corpses of the rebels.Yeong-sam entering the Hide and Seek arena.Ditto.Yeong-sam looking around.Yeong-sam standing there menacingly.Yeong-sam holding a red ball.Yeong-sam examining the red ball.Ditto, with intense admiration.Yeong-sam looking over at Gi-hun.Yeong-sam listening to the rules of Hide and Seek.Yeong-nam looking at Gi-minYeong-sam listening to the seeker's role.Yeong-sam arguing about the rules of the game.Yeong-sam stating that the blue team has it easier.Ditto.Yeong-sam insulting Jeong-dae.Yeong-sam with Player 442.Yeong-sam, Player 442, and Player 192 show their knives.Yeong-sam watches as the blue players enter the game arena.Yeong-sam making his way towards the maze.Yeong-sam in the arena.Yeong-sam looking around.Yeong-sam itching his head as he ponders the location of the opposing team.Yeong-sam moving deeper into the maze.Yeong-sam with players 163, 312, 359, and 442.Yeong-sam looking for hiders.Ditto.Ditto.Yeong-sam turning back, annoyed about hitting a dead end.Yeong-sam looking at a red player run by.Yeong-sam meeting Yong-sik in the maze.Yeong-sam telling Yong-sik to calm down.Yeong-sam trying to find where Player 418 went but looking at Cho Hyun-ju, Jang Geum-ja and Kim Jun-hee.Yeong-sam after Hyun-ju gets in the way of him and the others.Yeong-sam begging Cho Hyun-ju to step aside to let him kill either Jang Geum-ja or Kim Jun-hee.Yeong-sam about to attack Hyun-ju.Yeong-sam being stabbed in the heart.Yeong-sam's corpse.Kim Yeong-sam's partial fileThe back of Kim Yeong-sam's file.
Promotional
A shot With Kim Yeong-sam from the trailer of the  season two in tiktokYeong-sam looking at Gi-hun plead for death.Yeong-sam looking at Gi-hun in the revote.Yeong-sam as the hunt begins.Yeong-sam in the confrontation.Yeong-sam just before his fight.
Behind the scenes

References

↑ The 37th Squid Game began directly after Seong Gi-hun met with the Front Man on October 31, with Hide and Seek occurring on November 5, as a day was skipped after the tiebreak vote.


Season Two37th Squid GameMain Characters
001
007
120
149
222
230
333
388
390
456
Major Characters
044
047
095
100
124
125
196
226
246
256
380
Supporting Characters
004
006
009
015
016
043
050
066
072
096
145
172
178
189
192
197
198
206
220
254
283
285
313
324
336
343
348
353
394
400
418
442
444
Minor Characters
031
039
045
067
080
084
135
140
165
185
188
199
202
203
209
216
237
238
239
249
257
260
263
270
286
306
308
328
331
350
355
371
384
395
401
415
416
435
448
453
454
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
Others
The Salesman
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Kang Eun-ji
Park Jung-bae
Ex-wifeM
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Chief Kim
Lee Ju-hong
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Mr. Kim
Choi Woo-seok
Lee Jang-uk
Hwang Jae-hun
Yun Jun-ho
Sea Captains
Sea Captain Park
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-wooN
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Hwang In-ho's wife
Kang Sae-byeokNP
Kang Sae-byeok's motherP
Kang Cheol
Park Mal-soon
Park Mi-yeong
Broker
Dentist
Season Three37th Squid GameMain Characters
007
120
124
125
149
222B
246PG
333
388
456
Major Characters
039
044
096
100
203
226
306
336
353
Supporting Characters
006
009
172
192
197
202
230H
232
235
260
349
377
380H
390C
394
400
411
418
442
447
Minor Characters
024
028
047C
048
080
084
105
119
134
145
154
163
191
209
241
276
296
310
312
334
344
350
359
435
440
443
448
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Kim Jung-ho
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
VIPs
Richard
Jennifer
John
Jack
Kevin
Others
Waiters
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Choi Woo-seok
Kim Mu-dong
Sea Captains
Park Yeong-gil
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Kang Sae-byeokH
Kang Sae-byeok's mother
Kang Cheol
Oh Il-namF
Park Man-cheol

[[Category:37th Squid Game players]