Title: 240 (33rd Squid Game)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/240_(33rd_Squid_Game)
--------------------------------------------------
Ji-yeong






Name
Ji-yeong


Aliases
Player 240 (33rd Squid Game)Poor Lost Sheep (By Player 244)


Family
Unnamed mother † (avenged)Unnamed father † (disowned; victim)


Relationships
Kang Sae-byeok † (best friend, sister figure)Player 244 † (teammate/rival)Seong Gi-hun † (teammate)Player 196 † (teammate)Cho Sang-woo † (teammate)Oh Il-nam † (teammate)Han Mi-nyeo † (teammate)Ali Abdul † (teammate)Player 276 † (teammate)Team Five †  (situational rivals, victims)


Affiliation
Squid Games33rd Squid GameTeam Four


Occupation
Student (formerly)Inmate (formerly)


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
June 28, 2020[1]Marbles


Cause of death
Shot in the head by a soldier for purposely losing to Kang Sae-byeok.



Physical Description

Gender
Female


Eye color
Black


Hair color
Brown with orange and yellow



Appearances

Portrayed by
Lee Yoo-mi





First appearance
Last appearance




"Red Light, Green Light" (icon)
"VIPS" (corpse)







I thought hard about what I’d do. If I were the one who got out since you asked me earlier, no matter how hard I thought, though, I got nothing. The one who should have a reason to get back out there… that’s what’s right. You can do it. Don’t die in here, okay? And go… and go meet your mother. Go get your brother too, and go to Jeju Island.
Ji-yeong reasoning her sacrifice to Kang Sae-byeok in "Gganbu"

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 239
Player 241







Ji-yeong (지영 Ji-yeong?), also known as Player 240, was a participant in the 33rd Squid Game. A victim of physical abuse, she was incarcerated after she killed her abusive father in retaliation for his murder of her mother. She was the Pentagonist of Season 1.
She later joined the 33rd Squid Game after being recruited by The Salesman, where she joined Seong Gi-hun's team. There, she formed a close connection with Kang Sae-byeok. She was eliminated in Marbles, after she sacrificed herself for Sae-byeok's survival.   

Contents

1 Personality
2 History

2.1 Fate


3 Kill count
4 Trivia
5 Behind the scenes
6 Appearances
7 Gallery

7.1 Season 1
7.2 Behind the scenes


8 References


Personality
One of us is gonna die here, so it doesn’t matter what we tell each other. No one can really be embarrassed anymore.
Ji-yeong to Sae-byeok 
Ji-yeong has a rather laid back, unbothered personality despite the intensity of her current surrounding, and not very easily intimidated. However, due to her past trauma with her late father, she is bothered by the religious Player 244, criticizing his beliefs. She can be somewhat cheerful to people she is closer to, such as Sae-byeok.

History
     Ji-yeong with Sae-byeok in the marble room  
     Ji-yeong sitting in the marble area  
In her youth, she was physically abused by her father, who later stabbed her mother to death. In an act of revenge, Ji-yeong kills her father, a crime for which she served time in prison. Some time after her incarceration, she agreed to participate in the Games to, with little regard for whether she lived or died, as she felt she had nothing to live for in the outside world.[2]
Her father, as Ji-yeong said, was a pastor, and begged God for forgiveness while he abused his daughter and hit his wife. Although he did not pray when he killed Ji-yeong's mother, she thinks this is because he knew he wouldn't be forgiven. It is implied that his father's association with religion caused her disdain for the religious Player 244, as his beliefs were directly tied to her trauma. Thus, she dislikes Player 244 because he reminds Ji-yeong of her father. 
Prior to the third round she was recruited by Sae-byeok to join to the Team 4 and an alliance of contestants that included Cho Sang-woo and Seong Gi-hun. Sang-woo initially disapproved Sae-byeok's choice because he only wanted male recruits, which almost prompted Ji-yeong to depart, but Gi-hun encouraged her to stay. The group won the Tug of War game with help from Oh Il-nam and Sang-woo.
The surviving players proceed to the next game and have to pick a partner. As the players walk through the staircase room, they notice the bodies of Byeong-gi and his co-conspirators strung up. The Front Man then says over the intercom that the game was created with equality in mind and reiterates that there is no tolerance for cheating in the games. Sae-byeok and Ji-yeong decide to pair up for the game. They are then introduced to the fourth game, Marbles. To win the game, the players have to try to steal all of their opponent's marbles without violence while playing a sub-game with them. The person who ends up with no marbles is killed off and eliminated. They have a time limit of 30 minutes. If no one wins by then, both players will be eliminated. Their opponent in the game is who they chose to be their partner. This comes as a shock to everyone as they had partnered up with someone they trust, not knowing what the game really was.
Sae-byeok and Ji-yeong start talking. Neither of them wants to participate in the game, so they spend the next 30 minutes talking to each other. They start revealing their pasts to each other, with Sae-byeok telling Ji-yeong that a plague in her home village in North Korea had killed her grandfather, grandmother, and older brother. Sae-byeok explains that her family decided to escape to South Korea, seeking a better life, but only she and her younger brother crossed the border successfully, as her father was shot and drowned attempting to cross and her mother was caught and deported back. Ji-yeong reveals that she and her mother were abused by her father, who was a pastor and would pray for forgiveness every time he abused them. One day, after coming home from school, she found her father had murdered her mother, and Ji-yeong killed him out of retribution. She had received the Squid Game card the same day she was released from prison. Ji-yeong asks Sae-byeok what she would do if she won, to which Sae-byeok replies she'd get her mother out of North Korea, buy a nice house for herself and her family to live in, and maybe go on a vacation to Jeju Island. Ji-yeong chides her for having such a basic vacation in mind, telling her to aim for something more extravagant and promises to take her out on a girls' night out shopping before somberly remembering their situation.

Fate
     Ji-yeong's death.  
Kang Sae-byeok! Thank you... for playing with me.
Ji-yeong's last words in "Gganbu"
As the game's timer starts running out, Sae-byeok and Ji-yeong play the game.  They decide that whoever throws the marble closest to the wall near them, wins. Sae-byeok throws her marble and it lands reasonably close to the wall, but to her immense shock, Ji-yeong simply drops her marble, allowing her to win. When Sae-byeok angrily confronts her, Ji-yeong explains that ever since they started opening up to each other, she realized that she had nothing left to fight for in the outside world, while Sae-byeok still had a reason to live, and tearfully requests for Sae-byeok to live her life to the fullest if she is ever able to leave alive. As Sae-byeok is led away, Ji-yeong calls out to her one last time, and emotionally expresses her gratitude towards Sae-byeok for playing the game with her before getting shot dead, while Sae-byeok cannot bring herself to look at her friend in her last moments, only being able to listen in anguish and devastation.

Kill count


Character

Information

Image/GIF


"Gganbu"(mentioned only)


Her father

Stabbed to death with a knife when she was younger out of rage from him killing her mother.

https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/File:Jiyeongdad.mp3


"A Fair World"Tug of War


Team 5

Pulled of the Tug of War platform by Team 4




"Gganbu"Marbles


Herself

Sacrificed herself during the Marbles game in order to allow Sae-byeok to live.



Trivia
It is implied that she might have been sexually abused, because she mentions her father would do the "unthinkable" to her. Since he was a pastor, this could be potentially true since it could be a possible reference to show’s director Hwang Dong-hyuk’s famous directorial work, Silenced, in which its two main antagonists who were school principals that raped children whose school were also associated with its church.
While she was having a conversation with Kang Sae-byeok, she stated that she doesn't have a family name. This suggests she abandoned it due to her father’s abusive actions, not wanting to be connected to him or her past.[2]
Ji-yeong is implied to be an atheist, as she says that Player 244 shouldn't be thanking God for his survival and instead should be thanking his teammates.
In the Episode "Gganbu", when she talks with Sae-byeok, she references the 2015 South Korean crime thriller film Inside Men. She quotes the famous line, "Let's have a drink of Maldives in mojito" (often translated as "Go to mojito and have a glass of Maldives"). She mentions the film to Sae-byeok while discussing what to do with the prize money, specifically referencing the movie because it stars Lee Byung-hun. This creates a meta-reference, as Lee Byung-hun portrays the Front Man in Squid Game.
Ji-yeong is approximately 5' 4" (1.63 m), as is her actor.
In the original script, Ji-yeong was intended to be male, and their name would have been Ji-young. At some point in the over-a-decade-long wait for Squid Game, the director decided that the "bond between women" would better fit the script.[3]
She and The Recruiter are the only characters to have killed their own fathers. However The Recruiter had killed his father out of sadism and lack of remorse during his time when he was a Pink Soldier, while Ji-yeong had killed her father to avenge what he had done to her and her mother.
She and The Recruiter are the only characters in the franchise to committed patricide and ironically Ji-yeong and the recruiter committed suicide.
The main reason she chose to lose and die is so that Kang Sae-byeok could survive and win the game, and then be reunited with her family. Ironically, her sacrifice turned out to be in vain, as Sae-byeok also died, with Gi-hun being the only winner of the 33rd Squid Game.
Lee Yoo-mi's filming of Ji-yeong clashed with her filming of Lee Na-yeon in All of Us Are Dead Season 1. Due to this, both characters most likely got less screen time than was intended for their characters.
This might also be the reason why Ji-yeong was not seen before Episode 4 (Stick to the Team).
Ji-yeong is the final player to be killed by a pink guard in the 33rd Squid Game since the only player to lose Marbles after her [001/Oh Il-nam] was not killed, all the players in Glass Bridge fell to their deaths from a great height and the only death in Squid Game [Cho Sang-woo ] commited suicide.
Behind the scenes
     Lee Yoo-mi Photoshoot with Jacket 240.  
Ji-yeong was portrayed by Lee Yoo-mi.

Appearances
Season One
"Red Light, Green Light" (icon)
"The Man with the Umbrella" (icon)
"Stick to the Team"
"A Fair World"
"Gganbu"
"VIPS" (corpse)
Gallery
Season 1
Ji-yeong's icon.Ji-yeong's icon  during the mass panic.Ji Yeong's icon during Sugar Honeycombs.Ji yeong’s first physical appearanceJi-yeong sitting on the arena.Ji-yeong looking at Kang Sae-byeok.Ji-yeong look Han Mi-nyeo before Tug of War.Ji-yeong sitting.Ji-yeong ready for the Tug of War match.ji-yeong in the Tug of WarJi-yeong lying down after winning Tug of War.Ji-yeong Looking Player 244.Ditto.Ji-yeong preparing for a 2nd Special Game which never occured.Ji-yeong  sitting with her team.Ji-yeong and Kang Sae-byeok sitting down.Ji-yeong talking to Kang Sae-byeok.Ji-yeong looks at Kang Sae-byeok during Marbles.Ditto.Ditto.Sae-byeok and Ji-yeong deciding what game to play.Ji-yeong before She Shot.Ji-yeong smiling before being shot.Ditto.Ji-yeong's corpse.
Behind the scenes
Ji-yeong with Ali.ji-yeong with  han mi-nyeoJi-yeong with Ali, Han Mi-nyeo and Player 276.Ji-yeong with Ali, Kang Sae-byeok and Han Mi-nyeoJi-yeong with Team Four.


References

↑ Assuming the remaining games all occurred on consecutive days after the Squid Games resumed, Marbles most likely took place on June 28, the day before Hwang Jun-ho escaped the island.

↑ 2.0 2.1 "Gganbu"

↑ https://youtu.be/xc61U1aFkik?si=QQ-ElN5rqf-t4RBl&t=1348

Season One33rd Squid GameMain Characters
001
067
101
199
212
218
456
Major Characters
017
040
111
196
240
244
276
278
303
Supporting Characters
021
062
066
069
070
073
074
096
107
118
119
151
194
198
209
245
250
271
274
306
308
322
324
360
369
407
453
Minor Characters
002
003
004
005
006
009
014
019
024
025
026
028
032
039
043
061
063
068
075
077
078
080
081
083
085
090
112
113
114
115
120
122
123
128
130
133
134
153
154
187
202
204
211
220
224
229
305
309
328
331
357
362
400
413
455
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Workers
Number 028
Number 029
Leadership
The Host
Front Man
Others
The VIPs
Waiters
Human furniture
The Salesman
Young-hee
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Oh Mal-soon
Kang Eun-ji
Seong Ga-yeong
Seong Ga-yeong's stepfather
Seong Ga-yeong's stepbrother
Cho Sang-woo
Mother
Kang Sae-byeok
MotherM
Kang Cheol
Ali Abdul
Wife
Son
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Kim Sang-hyuk
Kim Jin-woo
Criminals
Loan shark
Gang member
Others
Seong Gi-hun's friend
Seong Gi-hun's friend's wife
Banker
Broker
Doctor
Dormitory owner
Factory owner
Teller