Title: 246 (37th Squid Game)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/246_(37th_Squid_Game)
--------------------------------------------------
Park Gyeong-seok





							2025
							
						



							2024
							
						



















Name
Park Gyeong-seok


Aliases
Player 246 (37th Squid Game)Prince Charming (by Kim Young-mi)Knight In Shining Armor (by Kim Young-mi)Handsome as a knight (by Jang Geum-ja)The Gift (by the Organ trafficking ring)Soldier 016 (disguised)


Family
Lee Eun-seong † (wife)Park Na-yeon (daughter)


Relationships
FriendsCho Hyun-ju † (close friend)Jang Geum-ja †Park Yong-sik †Seong Gi-hun †Park Jung-bae †Kang Dae-ho †Kwon Byeong-su † (ally)Player 145 † (ally)Kim Young-mi † (saved)Hwang Jun-ho (savior)Kim (savior)NeutralKang No-eul (client and savior; unknowingly)Player 197 † (teammate in the Six-Legged Pentathlon)Sim Jae-seok † (teammate in the Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 009 † (teammate in the Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 140 † (teammate in the Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 071 † (ally in Mingle)Player 154 † (ally in Mingle)Lee Myung-gi † (ally in Mingle)Kim Jun-hee †Player 328 † (ally in Mingle)Player 350 † (ally in Mingle)Player 324 † (friend and ally in the Revolt)Player 015 † (ally in the Revolt)Player 072 † (ally in the Revolt)Player 206 † (ally in the Revolt, avenged)EnemiesHwang In-ho (false ally, disguised enemy and traitor; unknowingly)Seon-nyeo † (enemy after Mingle)Masked Officer † (indirect enemy)Pink GuardsManagersManager of the RevoltSoldiersWorkersOrgan trafficking ring (attempted killers)Soldier 005 †Soldier 007 †Soldier 025 †Kim Jung-ho † (attemped killer, forced savior)Manager 004 † (enemy; attempted killer/indirect victim)Oh Su-kyung † (enemy; attempted killer/indirect victim)


Affiliation
Hansan High SchoolMyeongin UniversityFirst Art AcademySiren Entrance Exam Art AcademySeoul LandSquid Games37th Squid GameTeam XTeam O (error)Team 43Cho Hyun-ju's teamSeong Gi-hun's teamRevolt teamSoldiers (disguised)


Occupation
Art teacher (formerly)Portrait artistSquid Game Soldier (disguised; formerly)


Born
October 7, 1981 (1981-10-07) (age 44)[1][2]Gyeonggi Province


Fate

Status
Alive



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Black


Hair color
Brown



Appearances

Portrayed by
Lee Jin-wook





First appearance
Last appearance




"Halloween Party"
"Humans Are..."







Voting




Round 1
Round 2
Round 3













Don't thank me. These two, they're actually the ones who saved me.
Park Gyeong-seok to Jang Geum-ja in "O X"

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 245
An Dong-uk(Player 247)







Park Gyeong-seok (박경석 Bag Gyeong-seog?), also known as Player 246, is a participant in the 37th Squid Game. He joined the games in order to get money to pay for medical treatment for his daughter, who suffered from a recurring blood cancer.
Gyeong-seok was secretly helped by Kang No-eul, a soldier who'd formed a bond with his daughter due to her experience with her own child. After he participated in the failed rebellion, she aided him in escaping the island.
Gyeong-seok was one of three contestants to survive the competition, alongside Kim Jun-hee's baby and Hwang In-ho, and the only legitimate player to do so.

Contents

1 Personality
2 History

2.1 Background
2.2 "Halloween Party"
2.3 "001"
2.4 "Six Legs"
2.5 "One More Game"
2.6 "O X"
2.7 "Friend or Foe"
2.8 Elimination and escape
2.9 "Keys and Knives"
2.10 "The Starry Night"
2.11 "It's Not Your Fault"
2.12 "222"
2.13 "⭘△☐"
2.14 "Humans Are..."
2.15 Aftermath


3 Kill count
4 Trivia

4.1 Mistakes


5 Behind the scenes
6 Appearances
7 Gallery

7.1 Season 2
7.2 Season 3
7.3 Behind the scenes
7.4 Promotional


8 References


Personality
Gyeong-seok is a kind-hearted man and a caring and determined father, who by most was merely noticed as meek and pitiful artist. He is willing to go to extreme lengths to provide for his daughter, even joining the Squid Game in 2024 in order to receive enough money to pay for his daughter's treatment. His determination is shown very clear in the games, as he passed the first three rounds, and even joined Seong Gi-hun's rebellion against the guards. 
Gyeong-seok's caring nature extends to the other players within the games. He saved Cho Hyun-ju and Kim Young-mi from elimination during the Mingle game and warmly greeted their teammates afterwards. He does not take credit for saving Cho Hyun-ju and Kim Young-mi, instead claiming they were the ones who saved him. Later on, in the same game, he once again saved Cho Hyun-ju by rushing her into a nearby room.  
Gyeong-seok is also capable of great feats of bravery. He volunteers to join Gi-hun's rebellion and fights bravely in the ensuing gunfight, whilst many of his fellow players are clearly terrified. After being saved by Kang No-eul during the failed revolt, he is able to keep calm whilst posing as a Pink Guard. Eventually, when Gyeong-seok escapes the island on a small boat, he keeps a cool head even after some Pink Guards on a pursuing boat begin shooting at him. He is able to return fire and even kill one of the guards until he runs out of ammo.  
Six months later, Gyeong-seok has returned to his normal life. His daughter survived her battle with cancer, which has clearly lifted a weight off of his shoulders, as he now as a much more relaxed demeanor.  

History
Background
Park Gyeong-seok was born on October 7, 1981. He attended Hansan High School and Myeongin University. Three years after graduating from university, Gyeong-seok found a job as an art teacher at First Art Academy. He worked there for five years before moving on to a position at Siren Entrance Exam Art Academy. At some point, he met and married a woman named Lee Eun-seong and had a daughter called Park Na-yeon.
A few years after his daughter Na-yeon's birth, Gyeong-seok started to work as a portrait artist at Seoul Land, an amusement park, where he regularly took Na-yeon to look after her. He was left as her widowed father after his wife died. Na-yeon suffered from aggressive recurring blood cancer, which the other workers at Seoul Land knew about.

"Halloween Party"
Na-yeon! Na-yeon... Na-yeon, hey, how many times have I told you not to wander off? Don't cry. Sorry, guys. I'll get out of your hair. I'm sorry.
Park Gyeong-seok to his daughter and the mascots  in "Halloween Party"
During September 2024, Na-yeon was given a lollipop by Kang No-eul, a Gyeong-seok's coworker dressed in a bunny costume (who was also a North Korean defector) and the girl wandered off to follow No-eul, Gyeong-seok found his daughter in the mascot changing room, apologized to No-eul and her colleagues as he took Na-yeon back outside.
The next day, Gyeong-seok was drawing a couple when an ambulance passed by. It turned out that Na-yeon had fainted while she was alone, but luckily a good man found her and called 119. Seeing his daughter, Gyeong-seok immediately rushed to her, Gyeong-seok told the paramedics that he was Na-yeon's father and asked them to take her to Seohyeon University Hospital. But unbeknownst to Gyeong-seok, No-eul had seen what happened and she cared for Gyeong-seok and Na-yeon (because they reminded her of her and her daughter, Han Song-i; whom she lost when she escaped from North Korea), No-eul saw that Na-yeon dropped her strawberry hat and she picked it up.
At Seohyeon University Hospital, Na-yeon was hospitalized in Room 4104 and Gyeong-seok talked with a doctor. The doctor told Gyeong-seok that there was a new treatment for patients like Na-yeon, but the treatment it wasn't covered by insurance, Gyeong-seok told the doctor that he would find a way to get the money and begged him to help his daughter, to which the doctor told him to make another appointment for the next day and he would explain the details. No-eul went to see Na-yeon, gave her back her hat and left before anyone saw her; when Gyeong-seok returned with his daughter, he saw that someone had returned her hat. Gyeong-seok decided to participate in the Squid Games to get the money for Na-yeon's treatment (becoming Player 246), so he was picked up by a van on October 31, 2024 and taken along with 455 other people to The Island where the games were held.

"001"
Gyeong-seok woke up in the Dormitory with the other Players, signed a consent form and took his player photo. In the first game, Red Light, Green Light, Gyeong-seok managed to kept still when it was revealed that those who lost the game would be killed and followed the instructions of Seong Gi-hun (Player 456 and winner of the 33rd Squid Game) to win the game. No-eul (Soldier 011) was 1 of the shooters who killed players and she saw Gyeong-seok among the players, No-eul recognized Gyeong-seok and realized that he entered the games to pay for Na-yeon's treatment. Fortunately, Gyeong-seok managed to win the first game. During the voting, Gyeong-seok voted for "X" to end the games, split the money between everyone and go home, but the vote ended 182-183 by Hwang In-ho (Player 001; who was the Front Man of the Squid Games and had entered as "Oh Young-il" to keep an eye on Gi-hun) and the games continued.

"Six Legs"
Upon returning to her room, No-eul thought about Gyeong-seok and assigned herself the mission of protecting him so that he would return to Na-yeon. In the second game, Six-Legged Pentathlon, Gyeong-seok formed a team of 5 (Team 43) with Player 197, Sim Jae-seok (Player 343), Player 009 and Player 140. After Teams 1 and 2 were eliminated and No-eul killed Jang Do-yeong (Player 198), Gyeong-seok got impacted by the sound of the shots, as were the other players.

"One More Game"
Gyeong-seok chose to play Gonggi, passed the minigame and his team managed to cross the finish line before time ran out, winning the game. In the next vote, Gyeong-seok voted for "X" again to end the games, but the vote ended 116-139 and the games continued.

"O X"
In the third game, Mingle, Gyeong-seok managed to survive the first round, in which the number was 10. In the second round, in which the number was 4, Gyeong-seok teamed up with Player 071 and searched for 2 more Players. Fortunately, they managed to team up with Lee Myung-gi (Player 333) and Player 154 and enter Room 04 before time ran out. When the Players left the rooms, No-eul turned to look at Gyeong-seok and she was relieved to see that he managed to survive.
In the third round, where the number was 3, Gyeong-seok was left alone and looked for 2 more Players while Cho Hyun-ju (Player 120) and Kim Young-mi (Player 095) looked for 1 more Player. Fortunately, Gyeong-seok saw Hyun-ju and Young-mi, he teamed up with the girls and they entered a room before time ran out. When the Players left the rooms, Gyeong-seok, Hyun-ju and Young-mi met with Gi-hun, In-ho and Jang Geum-ja (Player 149), Hyun-ju and Young-mi told Geum-ja that Gyeong-seok saved them before time ran out and the old woman thanked him, but Mr. 246 told her that she didn't have to thank him and that the girls saved his life. Then, Park Yong-sik (Player 007 and Geum-ja's son; who was taken away from her by Players 172 and 220 during the commotion) arrived, Yong-sik tearfully apologized to his mother for leaving her alone and she forgave him and hugged him while the others watched.

In the fourth round, where the number was 6, Gyeong-seok teamed up with Gi-hun, Park Jung-bae (Player 390) and In-ho, they searched for 2 more Players and fortunately, they managed to team up with Players 328 and 350. They enter Room 34 before time ran out and survived. In the fifth round, where the number was 2, Gi-hun's team paired up and ran: In-ho grabbed Jung-bae, Yong-sik grabbed Geum-ja, Myung-gi grabbed Kim Jun-hee (Player 222), Kang Dae-ho (Player 388) grabbed Gi-hun and Gyeong-seok grabbed Hyun-ju (who was devastated because Young-mi died in the previous round). Gyeong-seok grabbed Hyun-ju by her arm, they entered Room 32 and Gyeong-seok closed the door; saving both of them from dying and winning the game.But when we vote tomorrow, do you really think we'll win?
Gyeong-seok asking his team during mealtime in "O X"Back at the Dormitory, Gyeong-seok sat down with Hyun-ju, Yong-sik and Geum-ja. Then Seon-nyeo (Player 044; who was part of Hyun-ju's team but was kicked out for her disgusting behavior) arrived with Park Mi-hwa (Player 006) and Player 306, the despicable woman mocked Young-mi's death and cursed the team for abandoning her; declared that none of them would get out alive and that they would die in horrible ways. Geum-ja insulted Seo-nyeo and told the team to clean themselves up to avoid the curse falling on them. In the voting, Gyeong-seok voted for "X" again to end the games and the voting ended 50-50, so the players would vote again the next day. At dinner time, Gyeong-seok sat together with Gi-hun's team and talked about trying to convince some members of Team O to join Team X and go home (to which he asked both Gi-hun and In-ho if they'll win the next vote). The teams started arguing and insulting each other since no one wanted to change their minds, but fortunately, everyone stayed on their team's side of the dorm, so a physical fight didn't break out.
In the men's restroom, Choi Su-bong / Thanos (Player 230) and Nam-gyu (Player 124) tried to threaten Park Min-su (Player 125) into joining them in voting, but Myung-gi intervened. After Thanos and Nam-gyu started making fun of Jun-hee (Myung-gi's ex-girlfriend; whom he got pregnant), a fight started between Team X and Team O.

"Friend or Foe"
The fight claimed the lives of Players 230, 268, 299, 331 and 401 and revealed to the players that they could kill each other. When the survivors of the fight returned to the dorm and counted what happened, the teams held a headcount to discover which team lost the most players. Upon recount, it was revealed that Team O had 47 Players left, so 3 of them died (Players 230, 268 and 299) and Team X had 48 Players left, so 2 of them died (Players 331 and 401). Team X was happy to discover that they were 48 against 47, so they had the advantage to win the vote and they thought that they had already won, so they went to sleep, but Gi-hun thought that Team O might start a fight when the lights went out.You really know your stuff. Where'd you learn all that?
Gyeong-seok asking Hyun-ju how she handles a gun very well in "Friend or Foe"
Gi-hun informed his team (In-ho, Jung-bae, Dae-ho, Jun-hee, Hyun-ju, Yong-sik, Geum-ja, Gyeong-seok, Kwon Byeong-su (Player 047) and Player 145) about the riot and they organized a plan: When the lights went out, they would hide under the beds, Team O would start fighting Team X and when the Pink Guards came in to break up the fight, they would pretend to be dead and take their weapons away; that way they could go to find the Front Man and end the games for good. Gyeong-seok helped Gi-hun's team with the revolt and followed Huyn-ju's instructions on how to use his weapon. Gyeong-seok asked Hyun-ju how she knew how to use weapons and she told him that she was in the special forces. Together, they leave the dormitory to begin their rebellion, having captured a Manager to guide them. Gyeong-seok, along with other rebels, fought against the soldiers, but they were vastly outnumbered. Over time, they ran out of ammunition and many of the rebels were killed. With no other options left, the rebels were forced to surrender.Wait, please don't shoot. I have a sick daughter at home who--
Gyeong-seok pleading a soldier before getting shot in "Friend or Foe" and "Keys and Knives"
Elimination and escape
"Close your eyes. If you want to live, do as I say."
Kang No-eul to Park Gyeong-seok. in "Keys and Knives"
Gyeong-seok and 145 were the last rebels alive from their group and were cornered by the Soldiers. Player 145 tried to beg for his life, but he was killed by the Soldiers and Gyeong-seok was cornered by a Soldier. Gyeong-seok begged the Soldier not to kill him and said that his daughter was very sick; but fortunately for Gyeong-seok, the Soldier in front of him was No-eul.

"Keys and Knives"
No-eul shot Gyeong-seok in a non-lethal area and she told him to close his eyes and listen to her if he wanted to live. Gyeong-seok, knowing that it would be better to listen to her if he wanted to get back with Na-yeon, listened to her and played dead. No-eul scanned Gyeong-seok to confirm his elimination and it was announced "Player 246, eliminated.". 
No-eul pretended to join an Organ trafficking ring run by a group of corrupt guards to extract the organs of the eliminated players and sell them on the black market. She informed them that they could use Gyeong-seok, the Workers placed Gyeong-seok in a coffin, Soldier 005 verified that Player 246 was still alive and the guards marked his coffin with a "†" (to indicate they could use him in the operation). In the operating room, the guards checked Gyeong-seok, saw that he was unconscious and proceeded to extract his organs. Then, No-eul grabbed her gun, she ordered the traffickers to stop and put down the tools, confronted them and killed Soldiers 005, 007 and 025 before they could do anything to Gyeong-seok. No-eul ordered Kim Jung-ho (Soldier 016 and the doctor who harvested the organs) to save Gyeong-seok or she would kill him. Jung-ho sutured Gyeong-seok's wound and fortunately, the bullet didn't damage any of his organs and blood vessels, but Player 246 lost too much blood and he needed a transfusion. Fortunately, No-eul's blood was Type O, a universal donor. Jung-ho performed the blood transfusion and No-eul warned him that if he tried to do anything stupid, she would kill him.

"The Starry Night"
The blood transfusion worked and Gyeong-seok regained consciousness, so No-eul killed Jung-ho and she puts her mask back on. When Gyeong-seok opened his eyes, he saw No-eul and worried about what she might do to him. No-eul told Gyeong-seok that she was trying to save him and came up with the plan to dress Gyeong-seok in Jung-ho's uniform to make him pass for a guard.

"It's Not Your Fault"
No-eul dressed Gyeong-seok as Soldier 016 and Jung-ho as Player 246. Gyeong-seok and No-eul left the operating room and Gyeong-seok felt some pain from the surgery, No-eul told him that they should hurry and Gyeong-seok asked her why she was helping him, to which No-eul told him to do what she said if he wanted to live. The Masked Officer (the leader of the organ sales) was informed by Manager 004 that there was no communication with the operating room and the Officer sent him to find out what happened.
Manager 004 went with a pair of soldiers to the surgery room, they scanned the organ traffickers to identify them (ignoring Jung-ho; who they thought was a player) and identified Soldiers 005, 007 and 025. The Officer asked Manager 004 about the situation and Manager 004 informed him of the deaths of Soldiers 005, 007 and 025, the Officer asked who killed them, to which Manager 004 said that it seemed like there was a gunfight and that Jung-ho did it, since Soldier 016 was the only one they didn't find in the operating room (without knowing that Jung-ho was there, dressed as a player and that Gyeong-seok was pretending to be Soldier 016). No-eul guided Gyeong-seok through the facility, she told him to follow the soldiers to get to his room and gave him his key (showing Gyeong-seok that he was Soldier 016); No-eul also told Gyeong-seok that there was a camera in his room and to be careful not to let them see his face, Gyeong-seok indicated her that he would be careful, followed the soldiers and No-eul went into the ducts to reach the Officer's room. Gyeong-seok arrived at Soldier 016's room, used the key to enter and sat on the bed. In the control room, the Officer asked for the report of the soldiers in their rooms and was informed that Soldiers 005, 007, 011 and 025 had not returned, the Officer asked for Soldier 016 and was informed that Gyeong-seok was in the room.
Upon arriving at his room, the Officer told Manager 004 that when the lights went out, he was to bring Soldier 016 to him, also to look for Soldier 011 and report her location. But then No-eul revealed that she was already there, the Officer turned around and saw No-eul pointing her gun at him, the Officer saw that No-eul entered using the ducts and asked her if she was responsible for what happened in the operating room. The Officer asked No-eul why she was doing that, since the organ traffickers only harvested organs from scumbags whose deaths no one cared about and he told her that she was taking a risk, to which No-eul told the Officer that he was taking a risk. The Officer asked No-eul what she wanted and No-eul said she wanted her and Soldier 016 to patrol the outer perimeter the next day, the Officer asked her why she wanted to do it with Soldier 016 and asked if she had met him, No-eul added that she also wanted a boat. The officer realized that No-eul was planning to escape from the island, he told her that it wasn't easy and that she knew it, No-eul said that she heard that The VIPs had already arrived, so it would be better for him if they disappeared quietly and she asked if she was wrong. The Officer, knowing that it would be better to listen to No-eul, did what she asked of him.
The next day, when the Soldiers were served their breakfast, No-eul found the boat key among her food and Manager 004 informed the Officer that No-eul already had the key, then the Officer told Manager 004 to return to the operating room, as he couldn't understand what was going on and he wanted him to check again in case that he missed anything. Returning to the operating room, Manager 004 checked the place carefully and decided to scan Jung-ho, then Manager 004 discovered that Jung-ho was Soldier 016 and reported it to the Officer, he told him that he believed that No-eul killed Jung-ho and dressed him in Gyeong-seok's tracksuit to make him pass as a player, the Officer asked who was impersonating Soldier 016, so Manager 004 checked the number on Gyeong-seok's jacket and discovered that it was Player 246. With that information, the Officer understood what No-eul was doing. The list of soldiers was called, Gyeong-seok took his weapon and the Soldiers were informed of what to do that day, with Soldiers 011 to 020 patrolling the outer perimeter.

"222"
Soldiers 011 to 020 were scanned by the managers to verify their identity, Gyeong-seok was identified as Soldier 016 and the managers told him to patrol the outer perimeter, Gyeong-seok and No-eul went out to the outer perimeter (which was completely cloudy) and the Officer told Manager 004 to have the pursuit team ready. No-eul guided Gyeong-seok around the island and they reached the boat, Gyeong-seok and No-eul got on the boat and began their escape.
No-eul received a call from the Officer, he told her to bring Gyeong-seok back and he would act as if nothing had happened, but No-eul refused and told the Officer to stop looking for them, as it would be best for him too. But then the Officer started reading the records of Gyeong-seok/Player 246, he told No-eul that he didn't know how she knew Gyeong-seok, but he believed she was trying to help him get back with Na-yeon, revealing that he knew where Gyeong-seok's daughter was and that she had blood cancer. Knowing that Na-yeon was in danger, No-eul changed her plans and returned to the island. Upon reaching the island's shore, No-eul got off the boat and Gyeong-seok asked her why she was going back there, to which No-eul told him to go north at full speed and call the police when he got to land, since his daughter was in danger, Gyeong-seok asked her if she knew Na-yeon and No-eul told him to leave and get as far as he could before the fog dispersed. Gyeong-seok sped off and No-eul returned to the island to stop the Officer, but unfortunately, the boat had a tracker, Manager 004 informed the Officer that the boat was leaving again and the Officer sent the pursuit team to kill Gyeong-seok and No-eul.

"⭘△☐"
Gyeong-seok sailed north at full speed, feeling pain for the surgery and No-eul arrived at the Officer's room, No-eul cornered the Officer and made him delete the records of Player 246, but before killing the Officer (to erase the records from his brain too), he told her about the printed record in In-ho's room. After fighting and killing the Officer, No-eul arrived at the records room, she found Gyeong-seok's records and burned them along with all the records in the room; she also found her own record and read it, No-eul read that her husband, Han Su-cheol, had been executed and that her daughter had disappeared, so they presumed her dead, leaving No-eul devastated.Wait. Please don't. I'm not one of the guards. I was trying to escape. That's why they were chasing me.
Park Gyeong-seok Hwang Jun-ho and Kim in "Humans Are..."Gyeong-seok sailed as far north as he could, but he was found by the pursuit team (Manager 004, Oh Su-kyung [Soldier 018] and another soldier), Gyeong-seok started to escape, but the guards shot at his boat's engine and began to approach him. Gyeong-seok grabbed his gun and started shooting at the guards, managing to kill 1 of the soldiers, but he saw that he was running out of bullets. With Gyeong-seok out of ammunition and very sore from the surgery, the guards approached his boat to kill him and Manager 004 said "Player 246, eliminated.". But before that he could shoot Gyeong-seok, Manager 004 was shot and killed, Su-kyung returned fire, but he was also killed. Gyeong-seok turned to see what happened and from the fog, his saviors appeared: Hwang Jun-ho and Kim (2 men who worked with Gi-hun to find the island and end the games; with Jun-ho being the younger half-brother of In-ho).
"Humans Are..."
I am in your debt.
Park Gyeong-seok thanking Hwang Jun-ho and Kim for saving his life and patching his wound in "Humans Are..."
Jun-ho and Kim boarded Gyeong-seok's boat and Jun-ho pointed his gun at him, Gyeong-seok begged him not to kill him, told him that he wasn't one of the guards and that he was trying to escape from them. Jun-ho scanned Gyeong-seok with his scanner and discovered that Gyeong-seok was Player 246; which showed Jun-ho that he was telling the truth. Jun-ho asked Gyeong-seok if he was a participant in the games, to which Gyeong-seok said yes and that he escaped from that hellish place. Then, Jun-ho asked Gyeong-seok if he knew where the island was, Gyeong-seok pointed to where it was and they could see that the island was close. Kim gave Gyeong-seok first aid for his wound, Jun-ho called the Coast Guard and gave them their location, so they would arrive in a couple hours, Gyeong-seok thanked Jun-ho for everything and Jun-ho swam to the island to end the games once and for all while Kim stayed with Gyeong-seok to wait to tell the Coast Guard everything.
The Coast Guard found Gyeong-seok and Kim and brought them ashore for medical attention. In-ho was informed that the Coast Guard was approaching the island, so the masked men evacuated (among whom was No-eul, who was wearing the Officer's mask) and In-ho activated the island's self-destruct sequence. The masked men escaped before Jun-ho and the Coast Guard could catch them and the island was completely destroyed along with the evidence, but the games in South Korea were over for good.

Aftermath
I didn't mean for that to sound weird or anything like that.(...) I just couldn't shake the feeling that I knew you.
Park Gyeong-seok to Kang No-eul six months after the games ended in "Humans Are..."Gyeong-seok returned home with Na-yeon and thanks to the support of their community, Gyeong-seok got the money that he needed to pay for his daughter's treatment. By May 2025, 6 months after the end of the Squid Games, Gyeong-seok returned to his job as an artist at Seoul Land. At work, Gyeong-seok met No-eul and she seemed familiar to him (without knowing that she was the Soldier who saved his life), No-eul told Gyeong-seok that maybe he knew her because she worked at the amusement park. Then Na-yeon (completely healthy and free of blood cancer) arrived and No-eul greeted her, calling her by her name, Gyeong-seok noticed that and No-eul told him that she heard Na-yeon's name when she worked there, also that she heard about the girl's condition and Gyeong-seok saw sense in it. No-eul said that Na-yeon looked much better and Gyeong-seok said that thanks to everyone's help, his daughter's health improved a lot. No-eul gave Na-yeon a lollipop, she told her to take good care of herself and proceeded to leave, Gyeong-seok told her that his portrait wasn't finished and No-eul told him that she would come back for it later. Then Na-yeon asked Gyeong-seok to help her open her lollipop, Gyeong-seok helped her and asked if it was good, to which Na-yeon said yes.
Kill count


Character

Information

Image/GIF


"O X"Mingle


Player 051

Deaths caused by blocking their access to a room, leading to their deaths; shared kills with Cho Hyun-ju.




Player 012


"Friend or Foe"Rebellion


Soldier

Shot in shoulder with a Heckler & Koch MP5 to avenge Player 206.




"⭘△☐"Yellow Sea


Soldier

Shot in heart with a Heckler & Koch MP5; self-defense.



Trivia
According to his player file, Park Gyeong-seok's resident registration number is 811007-1984316. He lives in the neighborhood of Hyangcheon-dong in Gwacheon, Gyeonggi Province.
He is one of only a few contestants who didn't join the games due to being in heavy debt, since he joined to provide healthcare for his daughter.
He is the only adult aside from Hwang In-ho to have survived the 37th Squid Game.
He is also the only known player to have survived the Squid Games without winning them or leaving after a successful vote.
He is also the only one from the 37th Squid Game who signed the consent agreement and survived.
He was the only player not seen getting slapped and playing Ddakji by The Recruiter.
His player number wasn't chosen randomly: In the asian numerology, number 2 represents duality (Father and daughter), 4 represents death, and 6 represents luck and happiness.
Officially, there is no record of him ever participating in the Squid Games due to No-eul wiping his player data and destroying his physical file.
Gyeong-seok is one of the only major characters to appear in every episode of season 3, alongside Gi-hun, In-ho, No-eul, Jun-ho and Myung-gi.
Alongside Myung-gi, Gyeong-seok is the player who appears in the most episodes of the series aside from Gi-hun and (if he's considered a player) In-ho; both appear in every episode, except 1, of season 2’s and in all of season 3’s episodes.
Gyeong-seok, Myung-gi and Jun-hee are the only players introduced to the audience before the games. Ironically, in Season 1, the only players shown were Gi-hun, Cho Sang-woo and Kang Sae-byeok, the final 3 survivors of Season 1.
The 3 are also the players focused on after everyone completes Red Light, Green Light; which also happens with the major characters in Season 1.
Both Lee Jin-wook and Park Gyu-young starred in Sweet Home.
His pentathlon team splits up after the game, as Sim Jae-seok is seen alone.
Gyeong-seok played only 3 games, Red Light, Green Light, Six-Legged Pentathlon and Mingle, whilst surviving the Special Game too.
When Seon-nyeo curses Hyun-ju's group, Geum-ja cleanses everyone in the group except Gyeong-seok and he is the only one who survives.
He is the only one on his pentathlon team who was not attacked and killed by another player.
Gyeong-seok and Hwang Jun-ho are the only two characters to have disguised themselves as guards.
In the second round of Mingle, Gyeong-seok teamed up with Lee Myung-gi, Player 071 and Player 154. But in the third round, he teamed up with Cho Hyun-ju and Kim Young-mi.
It's possible that they only allied for the second round, although it could also be that Gyeong-seok told Myung-gi, 071 and 154 to team up they 3 and that he would look for a team.
Out of all the main characters seen in the first three games, he appears the least.
He and Gi-hun are the only characters that have both their physical and digital file shown.
Mistakes
On two of the Season 2 posters, Gyeong-seok appeared as a member of Team O; despite the fact that he was always a member of Team X.
Behind the scenes
    Gyeong-seok as an "O" voter (error)  
Gyeong-seok is portrayed by Lee Jin-wook. He was voiced in the English Dub by Harrison Xu and French dub he was voiced by Thierry Wermuth.
Shortly after the release of Season 2, Park Gyu-young, the actress who portrayed Kang No-eul, uploaded on Instagram a picture of her and a then unknown actor in Pink Guard costumes. The other actor was presumed to be Lee Jin-wook, who portrayed Park Gyeong-seok, indicating that Gyeong-seok indeed survived the shot and disguised himself as a guard. The photo was quickly deleted from her Instagram.[3]
There is a youtube video of Lee Jin-wook dressed as Gyeong-seok with a O, meaning he was almost definitely supposed to vote O on at least the first vote. This was likely changed to present him as more moral, as he wasn't as focused on in earlier parts of the season, unlike someone like Hyun-ju or Dae-ho.

Appearances
Season Two
"Halloween Party"
"001"
"Six Legs"
"One More Game"
"O X"
"Friend or Foe"
Season Three
"Keys and Knives"
"The Starry Night"
"It's Not Your Fault"
"222"
"⭘△☐"
"Humans Are..."
Gallery
Season 2
Park Gyeong-seok trying calm down his daughter.Gyeong-seok painting someone before seeing his daughter go in a ambulance.Gyeong-seok's icon.Ditto.Park Gyeong-seok in RLGL.Gyeong-seok in Red Light Green Light.Park Gyeong-seok looking at the Prize money.Ditto.Park Gyeong-seok voting.Gyeong-seok  watches as the first two teams eliminatedDitto.Gyeong-seok completed Gonggi.Park Gyeong-seok's team winning Six-Legged Pentathlon game.Gyeong-seok and his team crossing the finish line and witnessing the other team die.Gyeong-seok looking at the prize money after Red Light, Green Light.Gyeong-seok after the second voting.Gyeong-seok in Mingle, as seen in a promotional image.Gyeong-seok and Player 071 before the second round of Mingle.Gyeong-seok after the second round of Mingle.Gyeong-seok's icon during Mingle.Gyeong-seok before Round 4 of Mingle.Ditto.Gyeong-seok emerging from a room after Round 4 of Mingle.Gyeong-seok running to a room with Hyun-ju during the last round of Mingle.Gyeong-seok and Hyun-ju in the last round of MingleGyeong-seok going downstairs towards the dormitory after Mingle.Gyeong-seok asking both In-ho and Gi-hun about winning.Gyeong-seok as the 2 factions start arguing.Gyeong-seok sitting with Hyun-ju, Yong-sik and Geum-ja as they were threatened by Seon-nyeo after Mingle.Gyeong-Seok before light out.Gyeong-seok and Hyun-ju in the Special GameGyeong-seok as Seong Gi-hun tries to get players to join the Rebellion.Park Gyeong-seok asking Cho Hyun-ju about her knowledge of weapons.
Season 3
Gyeong-seok getting warned by Kang No-eul in the stairs.Ditto.Kang No-eul and Park Gyeong-seok right after the revolt.the announcement of a elimination of Gyeong-seok after being scanned.Gyeong-seok's digital file.Gyeong-seok's File.Ditto.DittoGyeong-seok being found by Jun-hoGyeong-seok doesn't understand anything in a soldier's suit.Gyeong-seok looking at Jun-ho and KimGyeong-seok Looking Jun-ho.Him painting Kang No-eul.Gyeong-seok looks at Kang No-eul.Gyeong-seok painting in his digital file.Ditto.
Behind the scenes
Lee Jin-uk's team in Six-Legged Pentathlon.Lee Jin-uk playing Gonggi, while filming.Ditto.Gyeong-seok relieved after he completes Gonggi.Lee Jin-uk wearing a "O" patch as seen in a BTS footage.
Promotional
Gyeong-seok in the "Welcome Players" teaser.Park Gyeong-seok promotional icon.Gyeong-seok during Mingle as seen in a Season 2 promotional image.Gyeong-seok beside Kim Jun-hee.
References

↑ As of May 2025.

↑ Under the traditional Korean age system, which was changed in June 2023, a year is added to a person's age after birth, meaning he would've been 45 in 2024. His age, as stated, is given in international years.

↑ https://kbizoom.com/park-gyu-youngs-major-squid-game-3-spoiler-causes-stir-could-she-face-compensation-claims/

Season Two37th Squid GameMain Characters
001
007
120
149
222
230
333
388
390
456
Major Characters
044
047
095
100
124
125
196
226
246
256
380
Supporting Characters
004
006
009
015
016
043
050
066
072
096
145
172
178
189
192
197
198
206
220
254
283
285
313
324
336
343
348
353
394
400
418
442
444
Minor Characters
031
039
045
067
080
084
135
140
165
185
188
199
202
203
209
216
237
238
239
249
257
260
263
270
286
306
308
328
331
350
355
371
384
395
401
415
416
435
448
453
454
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
Others
The Salesman
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Kang Eun-ji
Park Jung-bae
Ex-wifeM
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Chief Kim
Lee Ju-hong
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Mr. Kim
Choi Woo-seok
Lee Jang-uk
Hwang Jae-hun
Yun Jun-ho
Sea Captains
Sea Captain Park
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-wooN
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Hwang In-ho's wife
Kang Sae-byeokNP
Kang Sae-byeok's motherP
Kang Cheol
Park Mal-soon
Park Mi-yeong
Broker
Dentist
Season Three37th Squid GameMain Characters
007
120
124
125
149
222B
246PG
333
388
456
Major Characters
039
044
096
100
203
226
306
336
353
Supporting Characters
006
009
172
192
197
202
230H
232
235
260
349
377
380H
390C
394
400
411
418
442
447
Minor Characters
024
028
047C
048
080
084
105
119
134
145
154
163
191
209
241
276
296
310
312
334
344
350
359
435
440
443
448
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Kim Jung-ho
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
VIPs
Richard
Jennifer
John
Jack
Kevin
Others
Waiters
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Choi Woo-seok
Kim Mu-dong
Sea Captains
Park Yeong-gil
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Kang Sae-byeokH
Kang Sae-byeok's mother
Kang Cheol
Oh Il-namF
Park Man-cheol