Title: 268 (33rd Squid Game)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/268_(33rd_Squid_Game)
--------------------------------------------------
This player's actor has not been identified.


You can help the Squid Game Wiki by finding this actor!




Player 268






Name
Unknown


Aliases
Player 268 (33rd Squid Game)


Affiliation
Squid Games33rd Squid Game


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
June 9-10, 2020[1]Red Light, Green Light


Cause of death
Shot by a sniper after running towards the doors.



Physical Description

Gender
Female



Appearances

Portrayed by
An unknown extra





Only appearance




"Red Light, Green Light" (icon)







Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 267
Player 269







Player 268 was a participant in the 33rd Squid Game.  

Contents

1 History

1.1 Fate


2 Trivia

2.1 Mistakes


3 Behind the scenes
4 Appearences
5 Gallery
6 References


History[]
Player 268 suffered a grave amount of debt for unknown causes, unable to pay it off. She was then approached by a man in a suit, who offered her to engage in a match of Ddakji. And if she won, she would recieve a prize of 100k won. She fails and get slapped repeatedly a lot of times, but eventually win and recieves their money. After that, she was given a strange business card with a phone number on it with the specific date to contact it and a location. After dialing the number at the specified time and stated location, a van then picked her up. She entered the van, saw the rest of the unconscious players, and was knocked out by an unknown gas. She then woke up in a large dormitory with 455 other players. Confused, she woke up from her bed and witnessed the fight between Kang Sae-byeok and Jang Deok-su from afar. When the guards stepped in and stopped the fight, they displayed a video on the TV showing multiple players being slapped. Convinced that she will recieve the prize money, she signed the contract, had her photo taken, and then proceeded to the first game; Red Light, Green Light. She was confused, and the arena was massive. But as the instructions were spoken by the announcer, she understood it clearly and made a bit of progess in the 1st game before chaos erupted.

Fate[]
Following by the deaths of 3 players, Player 268 panicked and ran likewise to the other players who also attempted to escape. Unfortunately, she was shot early in the rising genocide that was occuring. We don't see her icon during the scene where other player icons were fading, meaning she died early.

Trivia[]
It can be assumed that Player 268 is a female due to the length of the person's hair in her icon.
Mistakes[]
Player 224's icon can be seen in place of Player 268's icon when the players are taking their photos.
Behind the scenes[]
Player 268 is portrayed by an unknown extra.

Appearences[]
Season One
"Red Light, Green Light" (icon)
Gallery[]
Player 224's icon is where Player 268's icon should be.Player 268’s blank icon.
References[]

↑ Given that Cho Sang-woo was dropped off in the early morning hours of June 11 after the first game ended, it can be assumed that Red Light, Green Light took place no later than June 9 or 10, as the 33rd Squid Game is known to have started soon after Seong Ga-yeong's birthday on June 8.