Title: 333 (37th Squid Game)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/333_(37th_Squid_Game)
--------------------------------------------------
Lee Myung-gi





							Finalist
							
						



							Player
							
						



















Name
Lee Myung-gi


Aliases
Player 333 (37th Squid Game)MG Coin (online persona)Amazing Myung-gi (by Thanos and Nam-gyu)Traitor (by Thanos)Mr. Rational (by Nam-gyu)The trash (by Hwang In-ho)


Family
Unnamed daughter (attempted victim; out of paranoia)


Relationships
AlliesHwang In-ho (protector)Park Jung-bae †Kang Dae-ho †Kwon Byeong-su †Player 145 †NeutralKim Jun-hee † (ex-girlfriend and love interest, one sided enemy after Hide and Seek)Seong Gi-hun † (ally and teammate in Sky Squid Game brief enemy, attempted victim, indirect killer)Nam-gyu † (former enemy, ally during Hide and Seek)Park Min-su † (former ally and victim; unwillingly)Cho Hyun-ju † (victim)Park Yong-sik †Jang Geum-ja †Kim Young-mi † (indirect victim)Gyeong-su †Player 039 †Player 313 † (teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 241 † (teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 050 † (teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 249 † (teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 071 † (situational ally)Player 154 † (situational ally)Park Gyeong-seok (situational ally)Park Jae-cheol † (situational enemy; victim)Player 411 † (situational enemy; victim)Seon-nyeo † (situational enemy; attempted victim)Park Mi-hwa †Player 306 † (situtional attempted victim and indirect victim)Player 009 † (situational enemy; indirect and possible victim)Player 447 † (situational enemy; victim)EnemiesThanos † (arch-enemy; victim)Player 096 † (attempted indirect killer)Im Jeong-dae † (Indirect savior in Hide and Seek, victim)Lee Seung-won † (victim)Kim Yun-tae † (victim)Kim Gi-min †Player 299 † (killer; error)


Affiliation
Squid Games37th Squid GameTeam OTeam X (formerly)Team 60Hiders (formerly)SeekersIm Jeong-dae's team (formerly)


Occupation
YouTuber (formerly)


Born
1994[1] (age 30)[2]


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
November 7, 2024[3]Sky Squid Game


Cause of death
Fell off jacket sleeve to death



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Dark brown


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Im Si-wanChoi Jae-ok (stunt)





First appearance
Last appearance




"Bread and Lottery"
"Humans Are..."






Voting




Round 1
Round 2
Round 3















Round 3 Tie
Round 4
Round 5













Whenever you're investing, in the end it's up to you to make the final call based on your own judgement.
Lee Myung-gi recounting what he said at the end of his YouTube videos on his channel, MG Coin to Thanos and Nam-gyu in "001"

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 332
Player 334







Lee Myung-gi (이명기 I Myeong-gi?), also known as Player 333, was a contestant in the 37th Squid Game, as well as one of the finalists of the competition. He is one of the deuteragonists (alongside Kim Jun-hee) in Season 2, and one of the main antagonists (alongside Hwang In-ho) in Season 3.

Contents

1 Personality
2 History

2.1 2024
2.2 "001"
2.3 "Six Legs" & "One More Game"
2.4 "O X"
2.5 "Friend or Foe"
2.6 "Keys and Knives"
2.7 "The Starry Night"
2.8 "It's Not Your Fault"
2.9 "222"
2.10 "⭘△☐"
2.11 "Humans Are..."
2.12 Fate


3 Relationships
4 Kill count
5 Trivia
6 Behind the scenes
7 Appearances
8 Gallery

8.1 Season 2
8.2 Season 3
8.3 Promotional/Behind The Scenes Choi Jae-ok (Stunt Double)


9 References


Personality
Jun-hee, I was trying to find you. I wanted to protect you and the baby. I wasn’t just thinking about myself. I did it so we could get out of here and start a new life together. A happier life. That’s why I did it. So let’s just go. We have to get out and live, Jun-hee. We have to get out of here with the baby. I’ll help you.
Myung-gi trying to justify his murder of Cho Hyun-ju to Kim Jun-hee while trying to offer her help during Jump Rope. in 222
Lee Myung-gi was a morally grey man. Throughout the 37th Squid Game, he wasn't afraid to use deception and logic to achieve his goals of protecting Kim Jun-hee and winning the prize money. However, despite his best efforts to protect Jun-hee and get her to trust him again, in the end she detested him even more than she did before the games due to his willingness to kill even people close to her for extra money.
Myung-gi is capable of committing heinous acts with little remorse. Early on, he was solely focused on protecting Jun-hee and getting her out of the games. However, after he murders Thanos in self-defense, something seems to snap inside of him. During Hide and Seek, he alongside his former enemy Nam-gyu murder as many hiders as possible to increase the prize money. Myung-gi even kills Cho Hyun-ju, who unbeknownst to him had just fought multiple seekers and risked her life just to protect his baby. In the final game, Sky Squid Game, he initially protects the baby from Im Jeong-dae's team and even murders multiple members to save her. However, he later has a mental breakdown on the final tower and threatens to kill his own baby out of paranoia Seong Gi-hun will betray him.
He's also someone who is overconfident with himself, thinking that everything will go well for him. That same arrogance makes him take impulsive decisions, with stuff like advertising a Crypto which would unknowingly turn out to be a scam, killing more Hiders than necessary in Hide and Seek, and even promising Jun-hee that they would both leave and that he'll invest into a better future for both, despite not being able to cover their debts at the moment.[4]
On the other hand, Myung-gi is not completely heartless and he genuinely does love Jun-hee till the end. Despite the fact he didn't know what the game was and that it was likely having a pregnant woman on his team would've been a hindrance and removed most change of him finding a strong team, he still tries to convince Jun-hee to join his team during the Six-Legged Pentathlon. He also switched his vote to X during the second vote just for Jun-hee despite the fact his debt wasn't even nearly cleared yet. He even fought for Team X during the bathroom fight to defend Park Min-su and tried killing Thanos after he mocked Jun-hee. In Sky Squid Game, he apologised to Park Min-su before killing him and was willing to drastically lower his chances of winning to side with Seong Gi-hun.

History
2024
Formerly a cryptocurrency trader, Lee Myung-gi ran a channel called "MG Coin", where he advised his followers on cryptocurrency investing. He had also been dating a woman named Kim Jun-hee, who got pregnant sometime in early 2024. The two had a positive relationship and mutually agreed to abort Jun-hee’s baby.  Shortly thereafter, Myung-gi advertised a brand-new coin known as "Dalmatian" and advised everyone to invest every last cent into it. The cryptocurrency proved to be a hoax, and everyone who had invested in it, including the rapper Thanos, his friend Nam-gyu, and even his girlfriend Kim Jun-hee, lost ₩15.2 billion collectively when Dalmatian's inventors took the money and fled. Myung-gi became a fugitive from the law after this and was wanted for fraud and violating several investing and communication regulations. Jun-hee ended their relationship after he fled and shut down his YouTube channel. Because she was pregnant, she tried to stay in contact with him, but he completely stopped contacting her for six months, leading her to suspect that he had been covertly killed.
On September 1, 2024, The Recruiter approached Myung-gi in a subway station. In return for money, he encouraged him to play a game of ddakji, striking Myung-gi when he lost. He then handed him a contact card so he could go to the Squid Games. Unaware that she had also received a contact card, he disregarded Jun-hee's call. Myung-gi chose to participate in the games in an attempt to gain money because he owed ₩1.8 billion.

"001"
He asks for his wallet and phone during the 37th Squid Game because he needs to check the cryptocurrency market. The guard then explains his scheme and ensuing debt while playing the video of him getting slapped. Thanos (Player 230) and Nam-gyu (Player 124), who lost a lot of money as a result of Myung-gi's cryptocurrency swindle, approach him after he signs the consent form. At Myung-gi, Thanos loses his rage and snatches his collar, but he is calmed down before he can attack.
After taking his player picture and starting Red Light, Green Light, Myung-gi becomes confused when Seong Gi-hun (Player 456) starts adamant that everyone would perish. He votes "O" to proceed with the games after passing.

"Six Legs" & "One More Game"
     Myung-gi completing Jegi.  Later, he is confronted once more by Thanos and Nam-gyu, who advise him to earn a lot of money so that he may reimburse them for the stolen goods. After Thanos shoves Myung-gi's food in his face after Nam-gyu grabs it, the altercation turns physical. Myung-gi is successfully overpowered by Thanos and Nam-gyu, but unfortunately Hwang In-ho (Player 001) intervenes and finishes off the attackers.
While he is sitting by himself, Jun-hee walks up to him and says she is also participating in the games. She is shocked that he was unaware of this and calls him conceited. Myung-gi is annoyed to hear that she did not have the abortion he had anticipated, and she reminds him that he also conned her when he wonders why she is here. Jun-hee claims that because he voted "O", he is keeping her from leaving and that she doesn't want to make amends with him.Listen, I'm sorry I never called. Things were really rough for me too. You know how many lunatics were out to get me after everything that went down.
Myung-gi apologizing to Jun-hee for ghosting her in "Six Legs"Myung-gi tries to partner up with Jun-hee when it is revealed that the upcoming game would be one with teams, but she declines. Myung-gi ends up teaming up with Players 313, 050, 241 and 249, he plays Jegi and his team manages to survive. He is relieved when Jun-hee comes back alive. Because of her, he switches his vote to "X", even though "O" still receives a sizable majority. Myung-gi is confronted by Thanos, Nam-gyu, and Gyeong-su in the men's restroom for choosing to vote "X" even though the prize money was insufficient to cover his debt. When Thanos claims that Myung-gi is his slave and that he must reimburse him after receiving the full prize, Myung-gi insults his memory, pointing out that in this case, Thanos would be dead. Infuriated, Thanos prepared to attack him but backs off after In-ho, Jung-bae and Dae-ho enter. The latter two offer to protect Myung-gi case he’s bullied again, although he insist he's fine.
"O X"
That's not true, the door was gonna lock! The second you went out, they would've shot you, like they shot her! Then we'd be down, and the rest of your team would have died too! I saved your lives! Don't you understand that?!
Lee Myung-gi telling Cho Hyun-ju it wasn't his fault Kim Young-mi got killed in the fourth round in O X
The first two rounds of "Mingle" are successfully completed by Myung-gi, in the second round he and Player 154 saving Park Gyeong-seok and Player 071 at the last second. Myung-gi watches Jun-hee and her group joke about her pregnancy from a distance and he's relieved to see that she is alive. He completes the third round and in the fourth round, Young-mi, a member of Hyun-ju's group, is unintentionally knocked to the ground during the subsequent round when the number is 6. He immediately runs to take her place to save his life and the lives of others, indirectly killing Young-Mi. After Young-mi was shot, Hyun-ju and the others were completely broken for her death, and Myung-gi felt miserable as well, for an innocent person was killed. Hyun-ju is upset and blames Myung-gi, but Myung-gi declares that it's not his fault and that it was the only option for them to survive, so he saved them. When he tells the other's to speak up, Jun-hee and Dae-ho relcutantly admit that there wasn't enough time to save Young-mi. After the round, Myung-gi thanks Jun-hee for defending him, but she tells him that she only did it because he was right. In the fifth round, when it's announced that the number is 2, Myung-gi immediately grabs Jun-hee and rushes her into a room to save her.

After everyone has gone back to the dorm, Myung-gi takes Jun-hee to a corner and tells her that he wants to be with her, asking her to give him a chance to be a good boyfriend and a good father. He says that since the "X" team is probably going to win the vote, their combined prize money will pay off his debt. But as he starts discussing his new investment plan, Jun-hee thinks he will just take her money and leave her and the child behind. When Thanos and Nam-gyu saw the couple holding hands while conversing, they conclude that they were probably intimately linked. Myung-gi votes "X", sticking to his strategy, but the vote is tied.Xs, over here! These two were just threatening one of us a second ago. They're pressuring someone to change sides so they'll win the vote!
Lee Myung-gi telling Team X about Thanos and Nam-gyu forcing Park Min-su change his vote in O XMyung-gi intervenes to protect Park Min-su after he sees Thanos and Nam-gyu trying to coerce Min-su into altering his vote while he is in the restroom. "X" vs. "O" splits the bathroom as he starts yelling that they are using force to change the vote. By making fun of his connection with Jun-hee and pointing out how big her stomach is, Thanos intimidates Myung-gi. Then he threatens to cut off his finger, give it to her, and ask her out if Myung-gi doesn't change his vote. Myung-gi tries to strike Thanos in vengeance, but he avoids him, and soon after, everyone starts fighting. After choking Myung-gi, Thanos overpowers him and starts striking him while declaring that his life would be his. Myung-gi kills Thanos by stabbing him in the throat with the fork from their supper. He is shocked by this deed, pushes Thanos' body away, and locks himself in a bathroom stall, sobbing as the battle rages outside.
"Friend or Foe"
Myung-gi and the survivors of the fight return to the Dormitory and the teams do a player count to find out which team lost the most players. Jun-hee sees Myung-gi among the survivors and sees that he's covered of Thanos' blood. When he gets back to his bed, Jun-hee tells Myung-gi to hide when the lights go out and not do anything no matter what happens, Myung-gi nods at her and Jun-hee tells him to wipe Thanos's blood off himself, which Myung-gi does. With this, Myung-gi survives the Special Game. In the morning, he witnesses Gi-hun and a handful of X players pretend to be dead in order to take the guards weapons. Gi-hun's group asks for volunteers after they successfully defeat the guards, Myung-gi almost joins but declines after Jun-hee quietly shakes her head. Despite not being a direct participant in the revolt, he survives after it has ended.

"Keys and Knives"
When Gi-hun is returned in a coffin with a pink bow, he witnesses as Gi-hun is lifted out and watches the piggy bank fill with the earnings that has amassed from the players that died during the riot and the revolt as well as Gi-hun trying to have the guards kill him out of grief.
In the next game, which is revealed as Hide and Seek, where the Red team has to find members of the Blue Team and kill them, while the Blue Team has to hide for thirty minutes or find an exit, Myung-gi notices Jun-hee is on the Red Team and tries to persuade her to switch places with him so that he can avoid death by pressuring her to kill him and be able to complete the game. When she seemingly refuses, he sincerely offers to let her kill him so she can pass the game and survive. Before the game starts, she hands him the knife, making him be on the Red Team, while Jun-hee joins Cho Hyun-ju and Jang Geum-ja in surviving.
Before the red team enters, he’s approached by Nam-gyu, who is high on the pills from the cross he took from Thanos' corpse. Despite the two being enemies, Nam-gyu forgets about their rivalry and suggests that they team up during the game. At first, Myung-Gi refuses, but soon agrees and they enter into a temporary alliance.

"The Starry Night"
After entering, Nam-gyu offers Myung-gi a drug but he refuses. They find and chase after Player 235 and despite his pleas to spare his life since he had a wife and children, they kill him with a manic look and take his key. After some time, they find Player 411 and also maniacally and mercilessly kill him and take his key and complete the game. Myung-gi starts off to find Jun-hee, being terrified when he thinks he hears her being murdered and threatening to kill Nam-gyu if the latter harms her after the latter promises to “protect” Jun-hee with Myung-gi. Nam-gyu says that they were not forbidden to kill more members of the blue team and Myung-gi was overcome with greed and the desire to kill to increase the prize fund. The two take out two of Seon-nyeo’s cult (Player 006 and Player 447). Myung-gi and Nam-gyu nearly find Im Jeong-dae, who disguised himself as a dead player in order to hide, but an impatient Myung-gi instructs Nam-gyu to keep moving. After the game approaches its end, when Cho Hyun-ju is about to tell Jun-hee that she found an exit, Myung-gi suddenly stabs her twice in the back and kills her, only to look inside the room to see Jang Geum-ja and Jun-hee alive but having recently gave birth to their daughter. He's immediately remorseful upon realizing what he's done, tearing up in regret. In order to protect her, Geum-ja and their daughter from a Nam-gyu, he tells him the room is empty and leaves.

"It's Not Your Fault"
After the game, Myung-gi awaits for Jun-hee's return and is relieved to see that she survived. He's reluctant to approach her, due to guilt of killing Hyun-ju. During the night from afar, he watches her with their daughter but maintains his distance.  As the players vote, he's shown to be saddened listening to Geum-ja's plea to the O voters to end the games and continues to vote X. In the morning, he is shocked to find that Geum-ja hung herself in the night and watches as Jun-hee is saddened and horrified by her demise, with Myung-gi even shedding a tear himself. In the next game, Jump Rope, Myung-gi watches as Gi-hun goes second, after Nam-gyu, carrying Jun-hee's baby across as he narrowly survives and makes it, much to Myung-gi's relief and happiness. More player's attempt to cross but are then pushed off by Player 096.

"222"
Jun-hee. Let's go. We've got to move before it's too late. What are you doing to do then? Just sit here and die? I known you're angry with me-
Lee Myung-gi trying to fix his relationship with Kim Jun-hee and help her pass Jump Rope in 222
After Gi-hun takes care of Player 096 by throwing him off the bridge so the other's can make it through, Myung-gi notices that Jun-hee was remaining behind due to her fractured ankle from Hide and Seek, which would effectively make it where she is unable to cross alone. Myung-gi approaches her one last time and attempts to lend his help to try and redeem their relationship, but she coldly pushes him away because of the murder of her friend and for his greed. Having no choice but to leave her as she announces that she wants nothing more to do with his existence, he crosses the bridge soon after and witnesses as Jun-hee ends up tossing herself over the edge due to her being unable to cross in time and avoid the rope. Myung-gi is left heartbroken and saddened by this sight and tragedy, breaking down into tears, but maintains his distance from her baby, who is now being cared for by Gi-hun, who promised to be her guardian throughout the remaining games as his final promise to Jun-hee.
Later, Myung-gi returns to the dormitory hall and witnesses as Jun-hee's baby is instated in the games as Player 222, taking her mother's place, which enrages the other players. Just before the players could mob and kill both Gi-hun and the baby, with Myung-gi watching helplessly before standing up to intervene and protect them, the guards luckily stop them from committing any further action. The remaining players are then treated to a final feast as well as a vote to end or continue the games. Myung-gi votes to continue and watches as a guard feeds his daughter baby formula to keep her fed and alive. He later falls asleep from the heavy eating and drinking. Although Gi-hun was initially offered a chance by In-ho to slaughter the remaining players, Myung-gi included, for his and the baby's freedom and victory, he turns it down and refuses due to seeing Kang Sae-byeok's ghost.

"⭘△☐"
The following morning, the players are gathered to play the final game: Sky Squid Game. The remaining players end up on the Square tower, where the rules are explained to them: each player has to push a button on the tower and then spend fifteen minutes deciding who to push off the tower and kill as a sacrifice. At least one player has to die in order for the rest to move to the adjacent Triangle tower, and the same rules apply on the Triangle to reach Circle, and then once more to win. Myung-gi joins players 100, 203, 336, 353 and 039 as they decide to democratically vote how they will kill another player, deciding to team up and split the money six ways as players 125 (Min-su), 222 (Jun-hee's baby), and 456 (Gi-hun) await their fates. When the team initially votes to kill 222, Myung-gi makes them reconsider in order to buy Gi-hun and the baby time, and points out Min-su, who was already having withdrawals from drug abuse. They all agree but Myung-gi sits back as the other’s proceed to corner him towards the edge. Unable to get close enough to push Min-su off without being dragged off as well, Myung-gi takes matters into his own hands as he grabs the nearby removable pole, sincerely apologizes to Min-su as he admits he didn't want to kill him and proceeds to finally push Min-su to his death as he is distracted by his hallucinations (thinking the pole is Se-mi), looking down at his body in sorrow afterwards.
The surviving eight players proceed to the Triangle tower, with the six players trying to devise a plan to remove the baby from Gi-hun's clutches as they wished to kill 222 first, then kill Gi-hun on the Circle tower in order to ensure that the six members of their team will survive. Their repeated attempts to remove the baby from Gi-hun fail as they try to convince him to let her go while also having one of them be tied to a wrapped strand of jackets for protection. Finally when player Lee Seung-won tries to struggle against Gi-hun, Myung-gi takes the opportunity to take the pole from the tower's center, ordering Gi-hun to move as he pushes Seung-won to his death, defecting over to Gi-hun's side as both of them are armed. He then announces that he was the biological father of 222, much to everyone's surprise. He also admits to Gi-hun that he had planned to escape with both Jun-hee and the baby, but it changed when she died. In order to try and forge a final alliance by brutally beating Player 039 to near death and use him as a "lunchbox" (sacrificial pawn): basically using him as a sacrifice by dragging him to the Circle tower and tossing him over the edge to his death, Gi-hun and Myung-gi refuse to bend to this level, causing the remaining players to fight.
Myung-gi ends up struggling against Yun-tae, Yun-tae tried to take the pole from him and initially gained the upper hand in the fight, and tried to push him off the tower but he ended up at the edge of the tower and began to beg for mercy but Myung-gi was overcome by even greater greed and he was not going to spare anyone. When Gi-hun finally kills Player 203, the two surround Player 100 (Im Jeong-dae), where he continuously tries to convince them to use the "lunchbox". Myung-gi tells Im Jeong-dae that they already have 15 billion and that he is not participating and, blinded by the win, mercilessly pushes him off the tower. As the second round ends, they then turn around to see Player 039 crawling towards the other side of the triangle platform. Myung-gi tries to convince Player 039 that they weren't planning to throw him off in the final round, pleading with 039 to talk. Player 039 refuses to talk, however, and refuses to believe that he won't be thrown off. He then commits suicide by falling off the platform, leaving Myung-gi in shock as he turns to face Gi-hun.

"Humans Are..."
Do you know why I chose to go in this fucking hellhole? 'Cause I was constantly getting fucked over by guys like you!
Lee Myung-gi telling Seong Gi-hun why he played in the games in “Humans Are…”Now with the three players remaining: Gi-hun, the baby, and himself, he makes a play that is almost guaranteed to have him win: he goes ahead to the circle tower and collects the final pole to use, and then traps Gi-hun on the bridge leading to the circle tower. As the announcement gives the players five minutes to make it across to the other tower before the bridge closes, Myung-gi refuses to move, despite Gi-hun offering to sacrifice himself on the next tower so that both him (Myung-gi) and his daughter could survive. He then insists on Gi-hun setting the baby down on the bridge and backing up so that he could pick her up with the pole and bring her over to his tower. Gi-hun realizes that he intends to kill both him and the baby so that he could take all of the money for himself, and keeps refusing, but when he realizes he was nearly out of time, he relents and sets the baby down so that Myung-gi could retrieve her. However, as he is distracted holding her for the first time, Gi-hun grabs the knife he possessed and leapt across at the last second, prompting the two to engage in one final fight for survival. Myung-gi threatens to drop the baby as he holds her over the edge, although he has an emotional breakdown showing he doesn't want to kill his daughter but feels it's necessary to ensure he survives. After Gi-hun backs off, Myung-gi gently sets his daughter down before attacking the former with the knife. However, neither men notice the button to start the game as they fight and despite Myung-gi nearly getting the advantage, Gi-hun is able to disarm him.
Fate
     Myung-gi's dead body.  
Both Myung-gi and Gi-hun end up tumbling over the edge of the tower during their fight, with Gi-hun holding onto an exposed rebar on the edge with one hand and the other was holding his jacket, while Myung-gi was also holding onto Gi-hun's finalist suit jacket in an attempt to save his life. Despite Gi-hun trying to save Myung-gi by pulling him up, the fabric was beginning to tear due to Myung-gi still holding under his weight. The jacket rips in two, sending him plummeting hundreds of meters to his death below. He placed 3rd in the competition.

Relationships
See Lee Myung-gi/Relationships

Kill count
Confirmed killsAttempted killsIndirect kills


Character

Information

Image/GIF


"Friend or Foe"Bathroom Fight


Choi Su-bong(Player 230)

Stabbed twice in the neck with a metal fork; self-defense.




"The Starry Night"Hide and Seek


Park Jae-cheol(Player 235)

Stabbed in the chest with a hunting knife; shared kill with Nam-gyu.




Player 411




Player 447

Stabbed in the chest multiple times with a hunting knife after Seon-nyeo left her group behind.




Cho Hyun-ju(Player 120)

Stabbed twice in the back with a hunting knife.




Two Unknown Hiders(Player 009, Player 024, Player 241 or Player 344)

Stabbed to death with a hunting knife; shared kill(s) with Nam-gyu. Confirmed to have done this due to there being 2 extra deceased Hiders.




"⭘△☐"Sky Squid Game


Park Min-su(Player 125)

Pushed from a great height with the help of a pole without resistance.




Lee Seung-won(Player 336)

Pushed from a great height with the help of a pole unexpectedly.




Kim Yun-tae(Player 353)

Kicked and pushed from a great height with the help of a pole; self-defense.




Im Jeong-dae(Player 100)

Pushed from a great height with the help of a pole.





Character

Information

Image/GIF


"Six Legs"Dormitory


Choi Su-bong(Player 230)

Attempted to beat him to death, Interrupted by Nam-gyu.




"The Starry Night"Hide and Seek


Player 009

Planned to stab her to death; interrupted by Player 447 walking infront of him.




"⭘△☐"Sky Squid Game


Player 039

Attempted to push him off on the circle tower, to survive with Gi-hun and his baby




"Humans Are..."Sky Squid Game


Kim Jun-hee's baby(Player 222)

Uses the threat of throwing her from a high place as a means to save his life.




Seong Gi-hun(Player 456)

Attempted murder with Il-nam's knife to kill him and be the last player standing.





Character

Information

Image/GIF


"O X"Mingle


Kim Young-mi(Player 095)

Indirectly caused by locking her out of the room she tried to enter; indirectly shared kill with Player 249




"Friend or Foe"Bathroom Fight


Player 401

Indirectly caused by unintentionally starting the bathroom fight after attempting to punch and attack Thanos out of fury; indirect shared kills with Thanos.




Player 268




Player 331




Player 299




"The Starry Night"Hide and Seek


Player 009

Indirectly caused by ambushing Seon-nyeo's group alongside Nam-gyu, leading to them splitting up and her getting killed by an unknown Seeker




"The Starry Night" and "It's Not Your Fault"Hide and Seek


Player 028

Indirectly caused by killing more hiders than necessary, leading to them being unable to find a hider to kill in time; indirect shared kills with Nam-gyu.




Player 048


Player 080


Player 119


Player 154


Player 191


Player 296


Player 443


"222"Jump Rope


Player 306

Indirectly caused by telling him to hurry up, which made him stressed leading to him falling.




"Humans Are..."Sky Squid Game


Seong Gi-hun(Player 456)

Indirectly caused by forgetting to press the button, which led Gi-hun to face off the baby and eventually to his selfless death.



Trivia
According to Hwang Dong-hyuk, Myung-gi was genuinely trying to protect Gi-hun and the baby at the start of the final round, planning to sacrifice Player 039 so all 3 could survive together. However, his paranoia of Gi-hun betraying him lead to him snapping and threatening his child. He also confirmed the reason he accused Gi-hun of sleeping with Jun-hee was because he was trying to convince himself the child wasn't his so the guilt would hurt less. According to Hwang, before 039’s suicide, “Myung-gi never even considered killing his child”.
After Player 039 chose to commit, Myung-gi was left with no other choice but to save himself from Gi-hun, and risk the baby's life, as he lacks trust/faith in other people due to being tricked and scammed previously.
Despite his actions, Hwang Dong-hyuk said he didn’t consider Myung-gi someone “inherently evil” but rather someone more human who constantly makes bad decisions (Si-wan himself would later come to agree with this view) and told Si-wan that “Myung-gi has a good side too”, even admitting he wanted Yim Si-wan to play him so he could “come across as good”. Hwang said Myung-gi is able to justify his actions by telling himself that despite what he does, there are still worse people around him.
Him and 125 are the 2 players to have voted X 4 times and O 2 times. This is most likely a coincidence.
While Myung-gi threatens his child, there’s a minor translation error. The subtitles claim he says “I’ll do it!” and he says as such in the English dub, but in the original Korean, he says “I can do it!” This highlighted Myung-gi’s regret/reluctance at what he’s about to do.
Both Im Si-wan and Jo Yu-ri have stated in separate interviews that they don't actually think Myung-gi would have dropped the baby in Sky Squid Game. Even Hwang himself admitted after he saw Si-wan's performance he "wasn't sure" if Myung-gi could've done it.
Myung-gi, Kim Jun-hee, and Park Gyeong-seok are the only players introduced to the audience before the games in season 2. Ironically, in season 1 the only players shown as Seong Gi-hun, Kang Sae-byeok and Cho Sang-woo, the final 3 survivors of season 1.

The 3 are also the players focused on after everyone completes Red Light Green Light; which also happens with the major characters in season 1.
Myung-gi and Park Min-su are the only X voters after the Special Game who willingly changed their vote to O.
Myung-gi shares some similarities with some other characters:
Cho Sang-woo: Both are calculating and intelligent players who fell into debt due to investing (futures for Sang-woo, crypto market for Myung-gi), both are the first players who have their name and debt shown onscreen, and make tough decisions to save others (Sang-woo pushing the glassmaker and Myung-gi locking Young-mi out). They also kill their allies - Myung-gi killed Hyun-ju and Min-su while Sang-woo killed Ali and Sae-byeok. Like Sang-woo, who is saddened for having to kill Ali, Myung-gi is also saddened after pushing Min-su off the pillar and then look at his corpse solemnly, and both Sang-woo and Myung-gi protected Ali and Min-su prior to having to kill them. They're also the last players that Gi-hun faces in the final game, in which Gi-hun ultimately wins despite trying to save both of their lives. The difference is that Sang-woo was originally an ally and teammate to the heroes and becomes more antagonistic as the games progress while Myung-gi was never in the same group as the main characters. Another difference is that Sang-woo was willing to sacrifice his life so Gi-hun could win and take the prize money, while Myung-gi would’ve done it for Jun-hee but was unwilling to sacrifice his life to save even his own baby daughter, much less Gi-hun.
Kang Sae-byeok: His rivalry with Thanos is similar to Sae-byeok's rivalry with Jang Deok-su, and both Sae-byeok and Myung-gi become finalists. They both also vote for the game to continue and prefer to work alone rather than as a group, even rejecting the heroes offering to protect them from their bullies, and even both placed 3rd overall in their respective games. But their personalities are different, as Sae-byeok acts cold and uncaring but is actually caring and kind, whilst Myung-gi acts friendly, but later turns out to be cold and ruthless. And unlike Sae-byeok who remains heroic and becomes an ally of Gi-hun after slowly learning to trust others, Myung-gi falls into the path of evil and has to fight against Gi-hun in the final game that ends with his death because he never manages to trust other people (except possibly at the end when Gi-hun tried to save him). Another difference is that Myung-gi participates in the final game while Sae-byeok doesn't, as she was killed by Sang-woo before the game.
Hwang In-ho: Both started off as well-respected individuals (a police officer and popular YouTuber) who ended up losing their reputation, though for In-ho he accepted bribes while Myung-gi was scammed. Both end up joining the Squid Game's to cover their debt, with their lover being a primary motivation for them; In-ho sought to win and help his pregnant wife while Myung-gi tried to help Jun-hee (his pregnant ex) escape the games so they could start a better life together. However, both end up failing, as In-ho's wife died outside the games while Myung-gi watches Jun-hee commit suicide. This ends up being the last straw for both of them to fall into villainy. They also fall into villainy because they were corrupted by someone (Nam-gyu for Myung-gi, Oh Il-nam for In-ho). Also, both are shown to love their kids even after their fall to villainy, with In-ho being absolutely furious when Thanos tells him to "take care of his own kids" as Thanos unknowingly insulted his child. While Myung-gi tries to protect his daughter throughout the final game. Ironically, despite In-ho wanting his child to survive, it tragically died with his wife. Meanwhile, Myung-gi reluctantly tried to kill his daughter but instead she survives, outlasting both her parents. Finally, both Myung-gi and In-ho become finalist, but In-ho won the prize money while Myung-gi lose and die.
There are also some slight similarities between Myung-gi (specifically in Six Legs) and Player 271. Both have their meals taken from them (by Thanos and Nam-gyu/Deok-su) and initiate a fight to take it back, but both end up losing badly, kicked and beaten up. Player 271 is kicked to death by Deok-su. However, In-ho intervenes to stop the fight, preventing Myung-gi's fate from being like Player 271's.
Lee Myung-gi and Kim Yeong-sam were recruited by a recruiter at Jeonggak Station at different times.
Three of the characters whose name and debt amount were displayed on the TV being revealed to the players in 001 were killed by Myung-gi. Cho Hyun-ju (Player 120), Thanos (Player 230), and Im Jeong-dae (Player 100).
Myung-gi was the only one who was shown in the August trailer only once, revealing the numbers of the participants.
The crypto scam is similar to a real-life 2021 Squid Game cryptocurrency scam when a group used the series' popularity to create a cryptocurrency called Squid Coin before rug-pulling and running away with millions of dollars. It is unknown if the Dalmatian coin incident was inspired by this specific incident or other similar scams.
Hwang In-ho and Lee Myung-gi's actors had coincidentally appeared in another film, "Emergency Declaration"
Coincidentally, Kang-ho Song's, an actor in that movie, character name in the movie as "In-ho".
Myung-gi was one of the last three players during the final round of Sky Squid Game, alongside Seong Gi-hun and his baby.
Myung-gi is the only player to appear in every episode of season 3 alongside Gi-hun. He’s also one of the only main character’s to do so, alongside Gi-hun, In-ho, Jun-ho, No-eul and Gyeong-seok.
Alongside Gyeong-seok, Myung-gi has the most appearances of any player in the series aside from Gi-hun and (if he’s considered a player) In-ho; the two appear in all but one of season 2’s episodes and in every episode of season 3. Considering Gyeong-seok’s time as a guard trying to escape in season 3, Myung-gi  has the most appearances as a player in the series behind Gi-hun as well.
Most likely only the players in the game Sky Squid Game (not including Park Min-su, Lee Seung-won and Kang No-eul), Hwang In-ho and the VIPs know that he is the biological father of Kim Jun-hee's baby.
Myung-gi already had his debt settled with the amount he would get from the split, though he still voted to stay, glaring at the prize money before voting.
Out of the pairs of players who switched vests in Hide and Seek (Jang Geum-ja and Park Yong-sik, Lee Myung-gi and Kim Jun-hee, and Players 192 and 440), only Myung-gi and Jun-hee did not kill the person they had switched vests with.
Myung-gi was the last O voter to die.
He was also technically the last initial player of the 37th Squid Game to be eliminated, excluding Seong Gi-hun and his baby, as Gi-hun was a returning player and the baby became a player late into the competition.
Myung-gi is presumably the last player to be recruited by The Recruiter in Seoul, as Choi Woo-seok and Kim Jeong-rae began following him immediately after Myung-gi was handed the business card. The other players from other areas of South Korea are Recruited by Other Recruiters.
Myung-gi was similar to Sang-woo from Season 1, as they were both wanted for fraud.
Myung-gi placed 3rd overall in the 37th Squid Game, mimicking his player number, 333.
Myung-gi and Sae-byeok both placed third in their respective seasons.
Myung-gi was the last person to join his pentathlon team, as the other four can be seen together without him.
The only times Myung-gi was seen voting was only when he voted O, while all the times he voted X were off-screen.
Out of 455 people (excluding himself) only 2 people knew him, Players 124 and 230 (excluding 222 because it was simply it's ex-girlfriend and not a subscriber). Doing some math, about 1 person out of 228 would know him. Dividing the population of South Korea (51.75 milion) by 228, we can assume that he had about 227.000 subscribers on his YouTube channel.
It's possible that Myung-gi was the player that VIP John was going to bet on, as his number was the most similar to Jun-hee's after the fourth game.
Myung-gi is the only person who voted X after Hide and Seek to then survive and pass the Jump Rope game.
In the bathroom fight scene in Behind the Scenes, we can see an unknown extra that was Im Si-wan's stunt double.
Both Myung-gi and Gyeong-seok were seen before the games and during Mingle teamed up in the second round and coincidentally their season 1 counterparts shared the same icon.
Myung-gi had the second-highest kill count out of every finalist of the 37th Squid Game, at 9.
He also had the highest kill count of Hiders, at around 4 known victims.
He also had the third-highest kill count out of every known finalists, beaten by Hwang In-ho and Seong Gi-hun.
Lee Myung-gi and Cho Sang-woo are the only people revealed by the guards to the players how they got in debt.
Despite being a main character in seasons 2 and 3, Myung-gi never had a close ally during the games. For example, Jun-hee rarely accepted his help and generally avoided him, while others like Nam-gyu and In-ho were merely situational allies.
He is the last player in the 33X range to be eliminated in the 37th squid game.
He is the last player in the 3XX rage to be eliminated in the 37th squid game.
Since Lee Myung-gi placed 3rd in the competition, his 33rd Squid Game and 28th Squid Game counterparts was Player 067 and Player 3??.
Myung-gi knew that Thanos had been the runner-up in Rap Battle Underground as well as that he lost due to forgetting his lyrics in the final show, meaning he was possibly a fan of Thanos' music before the games, or atleast knew about him before the games.
His example showed that as he progressed, he became more and more greedy, killing for his own benefit, and what greed can do to you.
Myung-gi's killing of Thanos was indirectly the reason he became a finalist and 3rd place in Squid Game through a sequence of events:
His killing of Thanos made him desensitized or at least more comfortable with murdering other contestants, leading to him agreeing to murder more hiders. This led to Hyun-ju's death and other players.
Hyun-ju's death led to Jun-hee's distrust of Myung-gi, preventing him from touching the baby.
The lack of contact made the finalist not assume Myung-gi is the father, and Myung-gi voted O to blend in.
Myung-gi's murder of Min-su was possible because of the previous murders.
And just like Min-su, Myung-gi had no hesitation to murder the other O finalists including Jeong-dae. Player 039, who was injured, fell due to Myung-gi's clear intent to murder him at the final platform.
Controversially, Myung-gi held his own baby on the edge of the cliff due to his desensitization and greed, leading to his own death at the final platform when trying to kill Gi-hun.
Myung-gi and Player 197 were the only X players to fight in the Bathroom Fight, while also making it to season 3, since all the other players died in the Special Game or the Rebellion.
In an interview prior to Season 3's release, Im Si-wan said that Myung-gi would turn from someone who you don't wanna be friends with into someone you should actively stay away from, a clear foreshadowing of his behavior post Hide and Seek in Season 3.[5]
Behind the scenes
Lee Myung-gi was portrayed by Im Si-wan and Choi Jae-ok. In the English dub, he was voiced by Johnny Young.

Appearances
Season Two
"Bread and Lottery"
"001"
"Six Legs"
"One More Game"
"O X"
"Friend or Foe"
Season Three
"Keys and Knives"
"The Starry Night"
"It's Not Your Fault"
"222"
"⭘△☐"
"Humans Are..."
Gallery
Season 2
Myung-gi playing Ddakji in the subway with The Recruiter.Myung-gi looking at the card from The Recruiter.Myung-gi getting a call from Kim Jun-hee.Myung-gi ignoring her call.Lee Myung-gi's icon.Myung-gi talking to the Manager about where his phone and wallet are and asking to use his phone.Myung-gi watch the piggy bank.Myung-gi signing the consent form.Myung-gi taking his photo.Myung-gi confused at what Gi-hun is saying.Myung-gi during the mass panic.Myung-gi with Hyun-ju, Nam-gyu running to the finish line.Ditto.Myung-gi watching the roof of the facility close.Myung-gi as the guards return to the Dormitory.Myung-gi watching as the prize money increases.Myung-gi voting to continue the games.Myungi-gi getting shoved with a rice by Thanos.Myung-gi shocked to find out Jun-hee is there.Myung-gi talking with Jun-hee about teaming up before the second game starts.Myung-gi prepares to play Jegi as seen in a BTS picture.Myung-gi getting ready to play Jegi again.Myung-gi cheering after completing Jegi.Myung-gi looking at Jun-hee before he leaves with his team.Myung-gi looking at Jun-hee after the voting.Player 154 and Myung-gi in Mingle running towards Park Gyeong-seok and Player 071.Myung-gi looking at Jun-hee while she laughs with Gi-hun's team visibly disappointed.Myung-gi watching as Park Jung-bae and Kang Dae-ho applause.Myung-gi talking to Thanos before the bathroom fight.Myung-gi chatting with Thanos before the Bathroom fight.Lee Myung-gi after killing Thanos.
Season 3
Myung-gi watching as the guards bring a coffin to the DormitoryMyung-gi looking at the prize money after the Revolt.Myung-gi offering food to Jun-hee.Myung-gi looking at the hanging bodies of the players who participated in the Revolt in stairs.Myung-gi getting blue ball from gumball machine.Myung-gi after getting his gumball.Myung-gi looking the Geum-ja knife.Myung-gi  looking his key.Myung-gi receives a key.Myung-gi trying to convince Jun-hee to switch.Ditto.Myung-gi after switching to red.Myung-gi in the maze.Myung-gi in the maze with Nam-gyu.Myung-gi killing Player 447Myung-gi after killing Cho Hyun-ju.Myung-gi looking at the Piggy bank after Hide and Seek.Myung-gi in the fifth round of voting.Myung-gi looking at Jun-hee after the vote.Myung-gi looking at Jang Geum-ja, who hanged herself.Myung-gi's icon after Hide and Seek.Myung-gi looking at the Jump Rope game.Myung-gi's reaction after Nam-gyu falls to his death.Myung-gi about to jump pass the gap in the bridge.Myung-gi looking at Jun-hee commit suicide by jumping off the Jump Rope platform.Myung-gi after Jump Rope.Myung-gi looking at the other players arguing with the pink guards about Jun-hee's baby.Myung-gi while other players are arguing with guards.Myung-gi standing up when the rest of the players try to steal and kill Jun-hee's baby.Myung-gi before sitting down.Myung-gi prepares to vote.Myung-gi votes O.Myung-gi talking with the rest of the O voters.The finalists, including him, climbing the stairs to Sky Squid Game.Myung-gi preparing to push Min-su off the square tower.Myung-gi looks down at Min-su's corpse with the other O voter finalists behind him.Myung-gi fighting Yun-tae.GIF of Myung-gi fighting Yun-taeMyung-gi blocks Gi-hun's way with a pole.Myung-gi carries the baby with a pole.Myung-gi threatens to throw his daughter off the platform.Myung-gi's corpse.Ditto but in BTS footage.Myung-gi preparing for Sky Squid Game on the triangle tower as seen in a BTS image.
Promotional/Behind The Scenes Choi Jae-ok (Stunt Double)
Myung-gi's in the "Welcome Players" teaser.Myung-gi's promotional icon.Myung-gi in a promo image.Myung-gi talking to Kim Jun-hee.Myung-gi looking at the piggy bank.Myung-gi sat at edge of bed looking at piggy bankJun-hee and Myung-gi BTS.Myung-gi and Jun-hee talking.Myung-gi erroneously apart of the O team.Myung-gi after the bathroom fight.Myung-gi 's poster..Myung-gi with the others.Myung-gi next to Gi-hun.Myung-gi voting O.Myung-gi looking at In-hoMyung-gi in the poster.The stunt double of Player 333 (portrayed by Choi Jae-ok) next to Player 268.The stunt double of Player 333 with the stunt double of Hwang In-ho during the fight.
References

↑ Under the traditional Korean age system, which was changed in June 2023, a year is added to a person's age after birth, meaning he would've been born in 1995. His birth year, as stated, is given under the international age system.

↑ "001"

↑ During the 37th Squid Game, which began on November 1, a day was skipped when the players tied the vote after Mingle, with Jump Rope occurring on November 6, and the final game happening on November 7.

↑ https://youtu.be/i5omnFxEMMk?t=922 (Korean/Spanish)

↑ https://youtu.be/i5omnFxEMMk?t=800 (Korean/Spanish)

Season Two37th Squid GameMain Characters
001
007
120
149
222
230
333
388
390
456
Major Characters
044
047
095
100
124
125
196
226
246
256
380
Supporting Characters
004
006
009
015
016
043
050
066
072
096
145
172
178
189
192
197
198
206
220
254
283
285
313
324
336
343
348
353
394
400
418
442
444
Minor Characters
031
039
045
067
080
084
135
140
165
185
188
199
202
203
209
216
237
238
239
249
257
260
263
270
286
306
308
328
331
350
355
371
384
395
401
415
416
435
448
453
454
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
Others
The Salesman
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Kang Eun-ji
Park Jung-bae
Ex-wifeM
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Chief Kim
Lee Ju-hong
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Mr. Kim
Choi Woo-seok
Lee Jang-uk
Hwang Jae-hun
Yun Jun-ho
Sea Captains
Sea Captain Park
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-wooN
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Hwang In-ho's wife
Kang Sae-byeokNP
Kang Sae-byeok's motherP
Kang Cheol
Park Mal-soon
Park Mi-yeong
Broker
Dentist
Season Three37th Squid GameMain Characters
007
120
124
125
149
222B
246PG
333
388
456
Major Characters
039
044
096
100
203
226
306
336
353
Supporting Characters
006
009
172
192
197
202
230H
232
235
260
349
377
380H
390C
394
400
411
418
442
447
Minor Characters
024
028
047C
048
080
084
105
119
134
145
154
163
191
209
241
276
296
310
312
334
344
350
359
435
440
443
448
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Kim Jung-ho
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
VIPs
Richard
Jennifer
John
Jack
Kevin
Others
Waiters
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Choi Woo-seok
Kim Mu-dong
Sea Captains
Park Yeong-gil
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Kang Sae-byeokH
Kang Sae-byeok's mother
Kang Cheol
Oh Il-namF
Park Man-cheol