Title: 431's Interlude Game
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/431%27s_Interlude_Game
--------------------------------------------------
Raul's Interlude Game







Attendance:
229




Player statistics


Passed:
Eliminated:




226
3





Game Information

Teams?
No




Continuation


Previous
Next




The Count
Six-Legged Pentathlon





This game is an interlude game taking place between The Count and the Six-Legged Pentathlon. The decision of this game was made by Raul Gibson (Player 431).
Eliminations include Players 107, 285 and 286.

Game information[]
For test of The Count, the Front Man asked the Players that 2 volunteers were needed and Raul and Jacob Gibson (Players 431 and 432; identical twins) volunteered. Raul became the captain of Team O, Jacob became the captain of Team X, the 456 players were divided between the 2 teams (228 on each team) and The Count took place. Team X won The Count and survived while Team O lost and was eliminated.
Jacob was celebrated for giving Team X the victory, but Player 432 was sad because he thought that he had lost his brother. But it turned out that from 456 players, 227 were eliminated and 229 survived; being Team X... and Raul. The Front Man revealed to Player 431 that, for having had the courage to volunteer, he would survive Team O's elimination, but there was a price.
Team X was escorted back to the Dormitory to rest and Jacob felt a little down about having to face his brother, but Simon Hipkin (Player 063) encouraged him to continue, for both brothers. After a while, the doors to the dorm's hangar opened... and Raul and a couple of Workers walked in. The Announcer revealed that, as a reward for volunteering, Raul could return to the dorm, which made Jacob happy. The twins reunited and Jacob introduced Raul to Team X.
Raul spoke to Jacob privately and revealed that the price for his immunity was eliminating others players. Raul had 1 hour to eliminate 3 players, or the twins would be eliminated. Raul must tell 3 players, "Player [number], good luck in the games." to eliminate them. Raul decided to eliminate players who had bad intentions to win the prize or who were threats in the game, because despite being willing to eliminate others to save himself and his brother, Raul had a heart and didn't want to eliminate someone with good intentions for the prize.
Raul started talking to the players to find out what they would do if they won the prize money and most of them had intentions related to family and donations, so Raul couldn't eliminate them. While speaking with Jackie Mitchell (Player 107), Raul discovered that Jackie planned to spend the money on a party, so he chose her for elimination, since her intention was the least noble of all. Raul considered eliminating Mark Levy (Player 100), who wanted to use the money for a wedding. But upon hearing that Mark wanted to use the prize for things like having the best wedding possible, showing his fiancée, Rachel, that he loved her, giving money to his parents and having money for whatever he and Rachel needed, Raul couldn't eliminate Mark, since Mark was a very good man.
With 5 minutes remaining, Jacob was informed by a Manager that he and his brother had 5 minutes to make a decision. Raul considered choosing either Bryce and Blake Holliman (Players 285 and 286; twins) or Zoe and Curt Stinton (Players 369 and 370; father and daughter), since both pairs were related and had trusted allies among them. Finally, Raul decided to eliminate Bryce and Blake. Raul felt bad about having to do what he was doing, but he was willing to do it if it was to save himself and Jacob.
At the end of the hour, it was announced that Players 107, 285 and 286 had been eliminated, passing from 229 players to 226, but the eliminator left anonymous. However, many players quickly caught on that Raul must have done it in return for reentering the game.

Gallery[]
GamesSeason 1
Red Light, Green Light
Dalgona
The Ringing Phone
Warships
Marbles
Glass Stepping Stones
Circle of Trust
Rock Paper Scissors
Season 2
The Count
Raul's Interlude Game
Six-Legged Pentathlon
Voting
Catch
Boiler Room
Mingle
 Marbles 
Slides and Ladders
Circle of Trust
Shuffleboard
Finalist Interlude Game
Red Light, Green Light