Title: 434 (33rd Squid Game)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/434_(33rd_Squid_Game)
--------------------------------------------------
Player 434 was a participant in the 33rd Squid Game. 


Player 434






Name
Unknown


Aliases
Player  434 (33rd Squid Game)


Affiliation
Squid Games33rd Squid Game


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
June 9-10, 2020[1]Red Light, Green Light


Cause of death
Moved on a red light



Physical Description

Gender
Female


Eye color
Black


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Unknown extra





Only appearance




"Red Light, Green Light"








History[]

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 433
Player 435







Player 434 was in high debt. She was approached by a man and he offered to play Ddakji with him, whoever wins gets money. She possibly failed many times at the game but eventually won. She then saw an open van at the same location she was at. She went in the van and saw other people, unconscious. Due to the sleeping gas, she was knocked unconscious, too. While being unconscious, she was transported to The Island where the annual 33rd Squid Game and the Squid Games would be hosted. she was changed in his outfit with her number "434". She then woke up in a room with 455 other players. Visibly confused, she saw the players complain and saw their debts revealed, along with a video of them getting slapped. She listened to the guards and the guards clearing the players doubts. She then signed her contract and went up the Stairs. She then listened to the instructions to take her picture, and she took her picture, which would be her icon. She was then taken to the 1st game. 

Fate[]
When Player 324 was caught moving on a red light after betting with Player 250 as to whoever reaches the end first gets 1 million won, he got shot. Player 250 got confused and on the next green light he moved to Player 324's corpse and told him to "stop with the act". He then coughed up blood and Player 250 got scared, running away on the red light. He got shot in the chest and his blood splattered all over Player 306's face. Player 306 got scared and wondered what was on her face. She realized it was blood after rubbing her face with her hands and the hands getting blood too. She screamed and got shot in the head for moving. This caused a mass panic among a lot of players, and Player 432 was one of the players to panic. She was running to the doors and got shot at some point in the game.

Gallery[]
Player 434's actress.

↑ Given that Cho Sang-woo was dropped off in the early morning hours of June 11 after the first game ended, it can be assumed that Red Light, Green Light took place no later than June 9 or 10, as the 33rd Squid Game is known to have started soon after Seong Ga-yeong's birthday on June 8.