Title: 435 (33rd Squid Game)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/435_(33rd_Squid_Game)
--------------------------------------------------
Player 435






Name
Unknown


Aliases
Player 435 (33rd Squid Game)


Affiliation
Squid Games33rd Squid Game


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
June 9-10, 2020[1]Red Light, Green Light


Cause of death
Shot after running towards the doors



Physical Description

Gender
Male (possibly)



Appearances

Portrayed by
Unknown extra





Only appearance




"Red Light, Green Light" (blank icon)







Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 434
Player 436







Player 435 was a participant in the 33rd Squid Game. 

Contents

1 History

1.1 Fate


2 Gallery
3 References


History[]
Player 435 suffered a severe amount of debt, unable to pay it off. He was then approached by a man, who offered him to play Ddakji. And if he won, he would get a handsome cash prize of 100k won. He fail and get slapped repeatedly a lot of times, but eventually win and recieves his money. After that, he was given a strange business card with a phone number on it with the specific date to contact it and a location. After dialing the number at the specified time and location, a van then picked him up. He entered the van, saw the rest of the unconscious players, and were knocked out by an unknown gas. He then woke up in a large dormitory with 455 other players. Confused, he woke up from his bed and witnessed the fight between Kang Sae-byeok and Jang Deok-su from a far. When the Pink Guards stepped in and stopped the fight, the TV shows multiple players being slapped. Convinced that Player 435 will recieve the prize money, he signed the contract, had his photo taken and then proceeded to the first game; Red Light, Green Light. He was confused, and the arena was massive. But as the instructions were spoken by the announcer, he understood it clearly and made a bit of progess in the 1st game before the chaos erupted.

Fate[]
Following by the death of Player 306, a massive genocide began to emerge. With multiple players panicking and attempting to escape, Player 435 was one of those players who attempted to run. Unfortunately, he was shot early in the chaos, as we see his icon is already gone.

Gallery[]
Player 435's blank icon.
References[]

↑ Given that Cho Sang-woo was dropped off in the early morning hours of June 11 after the first game ended, it can be assumed that Red Light, Green Light took place no later than June 9 or 10, as the 33rd Squid Game is known to have started soon after Seong Ga-yeong's birthday on June 8.