Title: 437 (33rd Squid Game)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/437_(33rd_Squid_Game)
--------------------------------------------------
Player 437 was a participant in the 33rd Squid Game.

Player 437






Name
Unknown


Aliases
Player 437 (33rd Squid Game)


Affiliation
Squid Games33rd Squid Game


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
June 9-10, 2020[1]Red Light, Green Light


Cause of death
Killed off early during the mass panic



Appearances

Portrayed by
Unknown extra (icon)





Only appearance




"Red Light, Green Light"








History[]

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 436
Player 438







Player 437 suffered a severe amount of debt, unable to pay it off. They were then approached by a man, who offered them to play Ddakji. And if they won, they would get a handsome cash prize of 100k won. They fail and get slapped repeatedly a lot of times, but eventually win and recieves their money. After that, they were given a strange business card with a phone number on it with the specific date to contact it and a location. After dialing the number at the specified time and location, a van then picked them up. They entered the van, saw the rest of the unconscious players, and were knocked out by an unknown gas. They then woke up in a large dormitory with 455 other players. Confused, they woke up from her bed and witnessed the fight between Kang Sae-byeok and Jang Deok-su from afar. When the Pink Guards stepped in and stopped the fight, the TV shows multiple players being slapped. Convinced that Player 437 will recieve the prize money, they signed the contract, had their photo taken and then proceeded to the first game; Red Light, Green Light. They were confused, and the arena was massive. But as the instructions were spoken by the announcer, they understood it clearly and made a bit of progess in the 1st game before the chaos erupted.

Fate[]
Following by the death of Player 306, a massive genocide began to emerge. With multiple players panicking and attempting to escape, Player 437 was one of those players who attempted to run. Unfortunately, they were shot early in the chaos, as we see their icon is already gone. 

Behind the scenes[]
Player 437 was portrayed by an unknown extra.


↑ Given that Cho Sang-woo was dropped off in the early morning hours of June 11 after the first game ended, it can be assumed that Red Light, Green Light took place no later than June 9 or 10, as the 33rd Squid Game is known to have started soon after Seong Ga-yeong's birthday on June 8.