Title: Ali
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Ali
--------------------------------------------------
Ali Abdul






Name
Ali Abdul


Aliases
Player 199 (33rd Squid Game)Player 099 (error)My Savior (Seong Gi-hun)My Angel (Seong Gi-hun)New Recruit (Seong Gi-hun)Foreigner (Han Mi-nyeo)Illegal Alien (Han Mi-nyeo)


Family
Mrs. Abdul (wife)Unnamed childUnnamed parentsUnnamed younger siblings


Relationships
AlliesSeong Gi-hun † (friend and protected)Cho Sang-woo † (close friend/brother figure; forced rival in Marbles and indirect killer)Oh Il-nam †  (friend, teammate in Tug of War; indirect killer)Kang Sae-byeok † (friend, protected; teammate in Tug of War)Player 276 † (Compatriot; teammate in Tug of War)NeutralUnnamed Coworker (friend, partner; brief enemy)Han Mi-nyeo † (former enemy; teammate in Tug of War)Ji-yeong † (teammate in Tug of War)Player 196 † (teammate in Tug of War)Player 244 † (teammate in Tug of War)Player 273 † (attemped teammate in Tug of War)Team Five †  (situational rivals, victims)EnemiesFactory owner (former boss; enemy/possible victim, unlikely)Jang Deok-su †Player 278 †Player 303 †Player 040 †Player 413 †Player 113 †


Affiliation
Unnamed factory (formerly)Squid Games33rd Squid GameTeam Four


Occupation
Factory worker (formerly)


Born
1986–1987[1] (age 33)[2]Pakistan


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
June 28, 2020[3]Marbles


Cause of death
Shot in the head by a Soldier caused by Cho Sang-woo after manipulating him into unknowingly handing him all of his marbles.



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Brown


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Anupam Tripathi





First appearance
Last appearance




"Red Light, Green Light"
"Bread and Lottery" (flashback)







Voting




Round 1











You're alive. That is what matters.
Ali humbly refusing any praise for saving Seong Gi-hun in "The Man with the Umbrella"

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 198
Player 200







Ali Abdul (Korean: 알리 압둘 Alli Abdul, Urdu: علی عبدل Ali Abdul ), also known as Player 199, was a participant in the 33rd Squid Game. He was immigrant from Pakistan who worked at a factory that refused to pay him. He was also the Tritagonist of Season 1.
After saving Seong Gi-hun's life during the first game, he became a steadfast ally to him. After reentering the games, he became one of the first members of his team, alongside Cho Sang-woo and Oh Il-nam.

Contents

1 Personality
2 Physical appearance
3 History

3.1 2020
3.2 Fate


4 Kill count
5 Trivia
6 Behind the scenes
7 Appearances
8 Gallery

8.1 Season 1
8.2 Behind the scenes


9 References


Personality
Sirs, you made it! I'm glad you made it. I was really worried.
Ali telling Gi-hun and Il-nam after Sugar Honeycombs in "Stick to the Team"
Ali is a polite and grateful man who is one of the most altruistic Players in the game, risking his life by saving Gi-hun in Red Light, Green Light, even if it would mean death for someone he barely knew. He would also repeatedly thank others for doing him small favors, such as Sang-woo lending him his phone and paying for his bus fare. Being the most kind-hearted among the players, he is a bit naive and would easily fall into hindsight which has caused him trouble. Usually calm, he can be emotional at times, such when he tried to get his paycheck that he needed, or during Marbles when he realized he had been betrayed by Sang-woo.

Physical appearance
Ali is a Pakistani young man with a slightly below average height, brown skin and curly dark hair. He has brown eyes and faint stubble. He has two missing fingers on his left hand, from a previous accident at work. He is shown to have immense strength, as he lifted Gi-hun by his jacket one-handed, who was physically bigger than Ali himself, saving him from getting eliminated in Red Light, Green Light using his injured hand, and being able to carry a steel beam during the lights out. 

History
Ali immigrated to South Korea from Pakistan in order to get a well-rounded job. Unfortunately, he had to leave his parents behind in the process. He found work at a factory that hired other immigrants like him. He lived in Ansan with his wife, and they had a son together in 2019. Later that year, his boss began to deny him his paycheck. This continued over the span of next six months, during which he lost two fingers in a work accident.

2020
Ali moved from Pakistan to South Korea to support his wife and son, so he started working in a factory, but the Factory owner was a greedy guy and didn't pay Ali for 6 months, which made Ali unable to support his family, also caused Ali unable to pay for a hospital when he suffered a work accident that caused him to lose his ring and pinky fingers on his left hand.[4] A Recruiter offered Ali the chance to play Ddakji to win money and gave him an invitation card to the Squid Games. Ali decided to join the games to earn money for his family (becoming Player 199), so he was picked up by a van and taken to the Island where the games were held.
Ali woke up in a huge Dormitory along with 455 other players and the Pink Guards arrived. When the players started asking questions, Ali asked what they would be playing, to which the guards said they would not give out advance information to ensure fair participation. Ali signed a consent form and took his player photo. During the first game, Red Light, Green Light, it was revealed that players would be killed if they lost, Ali managed to stay still and remained alive. Near the end, Seong Gi-hun (Player 456) tripped over a corpse and almost fell to the ground, but Ali grabbed him and held him, saving Gi-hun from dying. With 3 seconds left, Ali and Gi-hun ran, jumped and managed to cross the finish line, surviving the game.
Upon returning to the dorm, Ali sat next to Gi-hun and Cho Sang-woo (Player 218) and Gi-hun thanked Ali and Sang-woo for saving his life, to which Ali told him that she was happy that he was alive. When a vote was held to decide whether to continue or end the games, Ali voted for "X" to end the games and return to his family; from 201 players, 100 voted for "O" and 100 voted for "X", leaving the final decision up to Oh Il-nam (Player 001). The old man thought about his decision... and voted for "X", closing the vote 100-101 and ending the games. Ali celebrated along with the "X" voters for having won and being able to return home.
Ali ultimately decides to voluntarily return after he accidentally injures his boss after he pushed him into rolling machine, crushing his fingers during a confrontation about the fact that his boss hasn't paid him for six months. He takes the opportunity to steal an envelope of cash from his boss, runs away, and give it to his wife, telling her to return to Pakistan with their child, promising he will return to them soon.[4]
Unfamiliar with the ins and outs of many Korean games, Ali is at a disadvantage as soon as he steps foot in the game play arena. But, trusting of his fellow man, he naively leans on his newfound allies for support, allowing them to guide him through the competition. At the start of the game, Ali's plan seems to be working, but as tensions rise and players became more ruthless, he unintentionally leaves himself vulnerable to the unrelenting nature of the game. He enters into an alliance with several other players, including Gi-hun and Cho Sang-woo, the latter of whom he has particular admiration for due to acts of kindness Sang-woo showed him outside of the Squid Game.[5][6]
Players are instructed to pair off into teams of two to prepare for the fourth game of the competition. Unsure what the next task will be, Sang-woo, one of the more strategic players, asks to team up with Ali, who is quickly identified as one of the youngest and strongest competitors. Together, he insists they'll be an unstoppable team and make it to the end. Holding a deep respect for Sang-woo and his kindness, Ali agrees to team up with him after only a brief moment of hesitation, waiting for Gi-hun's approval.
To begin the next game, the guards distribute small bags containing ten marbles each to every player. Moments later, the disembodied voice over the loudspeaker reveals that the teams won't actually be competing together but facing off in a one-on-one marble game of their choice, with the losers facing immediate elimination. Unfamiliar with any sort of marble game, Ali lets Sang-woo choose and ends up playing a guessing game in which they pick an odd or even number of marbles to conceal in their hands. When Ali revealed he did not understand what "odd" and "even" meant, Sang-woo explained to him, along with the rules of the game. Taking turns, they then guess whether their opponent is holding an even or odd number of marbles. If they guess correctly, they're allowed to keep the other's marbles. 
Even though he's never played before, Ali quickly ends up winning every round, enraging Sang-woo who accuses him of lying and cheating. Afraid, Ali apologizes but insists he's been playing fairly. After Sang-woo calms down, he tells Ali he's sorry for losing his temper and convinces him he's come up with a plan to outsmart the system so that they'll both make it out of the game alive.

Fate
     Ali's death.  
Sang-woo, where are you? Sang-woo? Sang-woo, hello? I‘m done with this side. Sang-woo! Sang-woo!
Ali's last words before getting shot by a Soldier in "Gganbu"
With no reason to believe Sang-woo would betray him so far, Ali agrees to Sang-woo's plan and watches as he takes his sack of marbles to make him a cloth necklace out of fabric from his shirt, which he tells Ali will make it easier for him to carry the bag and keep it safe from other players. Sang-woo then insists they should split up to observe the other players and meet up again with three minutes left in the game. 
Unfortunately for Ali, Sang-woo's plan was a trick to distract him. With minutes left in the challenge, Sang-woo turns in the bag of marbles he stole from Ali, securing his safety. After returning to the meeting point with three minutes left, as Sang-woo told him,  Ali desperately searched for his partner and called out his name. In a moment of realization, he discovered that Sang-woo replaced his marbles with rocks and his plan was to betray him all along. A tear sheds from his eye as he realizes that he will never get to see his family again and give them money. A guard then shoots him for losing the game a moment after, and his body is later placed in a box to be incinerated.

Kill count
Confirmed killsAttempted killsPossible kills


Character

Information

Image/GIF


"A Fair World"Tug of War


Team 5

Pulled off the Tug of War platform by Gi-hun's team to their deaths, losing the game.





Character

Information

Image/GIF


"Stick to the Team"Special Game


Player 113

Assisted Sang-woo who attempted to beat him to death with a metal bar; eventually 113 ran away.




Player 040

Attempted to beat him to death with a bedding steel beam in order to save Cho Sang-woo.





Character

Information

Image/GIF


"Hell"Unnamed Factory


Factory owner

Slammed his hand into a shredder, which possibly led to him bleeding out; most likely saved by his employees.



Trivia
Despite having two of his fingers missing thanks to his work as a factory worker, Ali Abdul has incredible strength, as shown during the Red Light, Green Light, Special Round and Tug of War games.
Ali and Player 276 are the only known non-Korean players, being both Pakistani. Both characters are killed in the Marbles round and have their actors' nationalities not matching the characters' nationalities. In Ali's case, he is from Pakistan while his actor is from India.
Ali recruited Player 276 to his team by welcoming him with the Adaab gesture. (آداب) "Adab" refers to a hand gesture and a concept of etiquette and respect, particularly in South Asian and Islamic contexts. In the context of a hand gesture, it's a respectful greeting, commonly used by Urdu speakers and others in the Indian subcontinent, involving raising the hand to the eyes with the palm inward while bowing the upper body.
Ali's player number (199) is a prime number.
Despite having a important moment in RLGL saving Gi-hun, he does not appear at any other previous moment during RLGL.
He and Kang Dae-ho have the same digit sum (1+9+9 = 19 and 3+8+8 = 19). This is most likely a coincidence.
Coincidentally enough, both died in their respective 4th game by the hands of their closest friends.
In a scene where Gi-hun pretends to eat, Ali can be seen laughing a bit.
Ali can be seen speaking 5 languages throughout Season 1, including Arabic, Hindi, Urdu, Korean and English.
Ali shares similarities with Cho Hyun-ju: both are kind, caring and selfless characters who are determined to save anyone, both helped Seong Gi-hun in Red Light, Green Light, both died from being killed by an ally (Sang-woo for Ali, Myung-gi for Hyun-ju) in the fourth game, and both are the respective minority representation for the season(s) they feature in.
Ali is the only close friend of Gi-hun from S1 who is not mentioned in the S2.
Ali has seen the Matrix and given his excited reaction when he guesses it correctly, he presumably enjoyed it.
Anupam Tripathi, Ali's actor, presented along with Hwang Dong-hyuk, the creator of the series, are seen in a BTS video from the set of the real-life challenge of the series: Squid Game: The Challenge.
Anupam was dressed just like Ali (Player 199), Dong-huyk called him "Ali" and upon arriving at the Marbles' game hall, Anupam and Dong-hyuk talked about that Ali died during Marbles in the original series.
Behind the scenes
Ali Abdul was portrayed by Anupam Tripathi.

Appearances
Season One
"Red Light, Green Light"
"Hell"
"The Man with the Umbrella"
"Stick to the Team"
"A Fair World"
"Gganbu"
"VIPS" (corpse)
"One Lucky Day" (indirect mentioned)
Season Two
"Bread and Lottery" (flashback)
Gallery
Season 1
Ali asks Pink Guards about the Squid Games.Ali's icon.Ali's icon reference.Ali saves Seong Gi-hun during Red Light, Green Light game.Ditto.Ali running towards the finish line.After voting to stop the game.Ali smiling after the games termination.Ali crushing factory owner hand.Sang-woo gives money to Ali.Ali waiting for bus.Ali Abdul after returning to the games.Ali Abdul and his team after returning.Ali showing his completed dalgona to the guard.Ali greeting Gi-hun and Il-nam after Sugar Honeycombs.Ali talking to Seong Gi-hun's team after the Special Game.Player 276 bringing Player 273 to Ali so he could join Team 4Ali getting ready to pull in Tug of War.Ali Abdul after Tug of War.Ali realizing he got betrayed by Sang-wooDitto.Ali's corpseAli's jacket in King the Land.Ali Abdul's colorful icon in a promo imageAli Abdul's funko pop.
Behind the scenes
BTS of Another Player 199 during Red Light, Green Light.Ali in BTS.Ali with Ji-yeong.Ali with Kang Sae-byeok and Han Mi-nyeo.Ali with Ji-yeong, Han Mi-nyeo and Player 276.Ali with Ji-yeong, Kang Sae-byeok and Han Mi-nyeoAli with Team Four.Ali and Sang-woo in Marbles.Ali's icon with number 099 in a promotional event.
References

↑ Assuming use of the international age system. Under the traditional Korean age system, Ali would've been born in 1988 if he was 33 in 2020.

↑ "A Fair World"

↑ Assuming the remaining games all occurred on consecutive days after the Squid Games resumed, Marbles most likely took place on June 28, the day before Hwang Jun-ho escaped the island.

↑ 4.0 4.1 Hell

↑ Stick to the Team

↑ The Man with the Umbrella

Season One33rd Squid GameMain Characters
001
067
101
199
212
218
456
Major Characters
017
040
111
196
240
244
276
278
303
Supporting Characters
021
062
066
069
070
073
074
096
107
118
119
151
194
198
209
245
250
271
274
306
308
322
324
360
369
407
453
Minor Characters
002
003
004
005
006
009
014
019
024
025
026
028
032
039
043
061
063
068
075
077
078
080
081
083
085
090
112
113
114
115
120
122
123
128
130
133
134
153
154
187
202
204
211
220
224
229
305
309
328
331
357
362
400
413
455
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Workers
Number 028
Number 029
Leadership
The Host
Front Man
Others
The VIPs
Waiters
Human furniture
The Salesman
Young-hee
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Oh Mal-soon
Kang Eun-ji
Seong Ga-yeong
Seong Ga-yeong's stepfather
Seong Ga-yeong's stepbrother
Cho Sang-woo
Mother
Kang Sae-byeok
MotherM
Kang Cheol
Ali Abdul
Wife
Son
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Kim Sang-hyuk
Kim Jin-woo
Criminals
Loan shark
Gang member
Others
Seong Gi-hun's friend
Seong Gi-hun's friend's wife
Banker
Broker
Doctor
Dormitory owner
Factory owner
Teller