Title: Bae Dong-il
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Bae_Dong-il
--------------------------------------------------
Bae Dong-il may also refer to Player 033, a player with an identical name who won the 25th Squid Game.



Bae Dong-il






Name
Bae Dong-il


Aliases
Player 002


Family
Unnamed motherUnnamed father


Affiliation
Squid Games12th Squid Game3 unknown schools2 unknown workspaces


Born
November 3, 1956 (43 years)South Korea 


Fate

Status
Unknown



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Brown


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Ko Seung-il





Only appearance




"A Fair World" (photo)






Bae Dong-il (배동일 Bae Dong-il?), also known as Player 002, was a participant of the 12th Squid Game which was held in 1999. His player file appears briefly in the episode "A Fair World".

Contents

1 History

1.1 Fate


2 Trivia
3 Behind the scenes
4 Appearances
5 Gallery
6 References


History[]
Almost nothing is known about Bae Dong-il's background, except for the fact that he graduated from an unknown school and held two different jobs over the course of his adulthood. He was living with two unnamed individuals as of 1999.
When he was contacted by Squid Game staff  or possibly the recruiter for the games at the time, Bae Dong-il decided to enter a high-risk competition along with many other players in order to win large amounts of money.

Fate[]
It is presumed that Bae Dong-il either died and got eliminated playing the games or left permanently after a vote to terminate the games succeeded, as the 12th Squid Game was eventually won by a player named Oh Jeong-nam, also known as Player 377.

Trivia[]
Bae Dong-il shares his name with Player 033, the player who won the 25th Squid Game.
He has the same icon as Player 433. And plays Player 236.
According to his page on Namuwiki, Bae Dong-il was born around November 3, 1956. He held a transportation-related job for 4 years and then moved onto a second job where he worked for 14 years. He was unemployed at the time of his participation in the games and lived in Gimpo, Gyeonggi Province. None of this is confirmed, however.
Both him and his 33rd squid game counterpart are named
Behind the scenes[]
Bae Dong-il was portrayed by Ko Seung-il.

Appearances[]
Season One
"A Fair World" (Player photo)
Gallery[]
Bae Dong-il’s file.
References[]