Title: Banker
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Banker
--------------------------------------------------
Park Sun-woo






Name
Park Sun-woo[1]


Relationships
Seong Gi-hun (client)


Occupation
Managing directorBanker


Fate

Status
Alive



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Brown


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Lee Jeong-heon





Only appearance




"One Lucky Day"







You've got all your money set up in a normal savings account. You weren't earning all that much interest on it. And recently, our bank began offering these consultations for VIPs looking to expand their financial assets. I wanted to let you know that we're here to help.
Park Sun-woo to Seong Gi-hun in "One Lucky Day"
Park Sun-woo (박선우 Bag Seon-u?) is a banker who attempts to convince Seong Gi-hun to invest his money. He appears in "One Lucky Day".

Contents

1 History
2 Trivia
3 Behind the scenes
4 Appearances
5 Gallery
6 References


History[]
In 2021, Park Sun-woo asked Seong Gi-hun to meet up at the bank to discuss Gi-hun's fortune that he barely touched. He has an employee bring him a complimentary drink, which he says is "reserved for VIPs like him", and tries to convince him to invest his money, which is currently in a standard saving account and collecting very little money. 
When Gi-hun gets up to leave, the banker asks if he has offended him in some way. Gi-hun asks if he can borrow ₩10,000 from him, which he gives him from his own pocket. Gi-hun then thanks him and leaves. 

Trivia[]
Park Sun-woo is the only character in the show whose name is shown printed in hanja, rather than the more common hangul.
Behind the scenes[]
Park Sun-woo was portrayed by Lee Jeong-heon.

Appearances[]
Season One
"One Lucky Day"
Gallery[]
Sun-woo greeting Gi-hun.Ditto.Sun-woo speaking to Gi-hun.Sun-woo standing up.Sun-woo handing Gi-hun ₩10,000.Sun-woo watching Gi-hun leave.
References[]

↑ A nameplate on his desk displays the name "朴善友" in hanja, which translates to "Park Sun-woo".