Title: Bread and Lottery
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Bread_and_Lottery
--------------------------------------------------
Season Two


Bread and Lottery

Halloween Party

001

Six Legs

One More Game

O X

Friend or Foe

When I got that business card three years ago, it was around this time of year. So if they're still hosting the game then... he'll start to recruit new players. If I miss this opportunity, then it's a whole nother year I have to wait.
Seong Gi-hun to Mr. Kim about finding the Recruiter 

Bread and Lottery





							Title
							
						



							Episode
							
						






















Season
Episode
Overall




2
1
10





Episode Information

Duration
65 minutes


Air Date
December 26, 2024


Writer
Hwang Dong-hyuk


Director
Hwang Dong-hyuk




Episode Guide


Previous
Next




"One Lucky Day"
"Halloween Party"





Bread and Lottery (빵과 복권 Ppang-gwa Bokgwon?) is the 1st episode in Season 2 of the Netflix TV series Squid Game. It is  the tenth episode of the series overall.  

Contents

1 Synopsis
2 Plot

2.1 2024


3 Cast

3.1 Starring
3.2 Guest Starring
3.3 Co-Starring


4 Deaths
5 Trivia
6 Gallery

6.1 Promotional images




Synopsis[]
A vengeful Gi-hun makes a U-turn at the airport. Later, in his hideout, he intensifies his search for the elusive recruiter who is seeking new players.

—Official Netflix synopsis
Plot[]
Gi-hun is at the airport, preparing to board a flight to the United States to reconnect with his daughter. However, after having seen The Recruiter try to sucker in another desperate person into playing the games, he turns back, determined to put an end to this once and for all. As he stands at the gate, his phone suddenly starts buzzing. He picks up the call, and to his shock, it’s the Front Man, who tries to threaten Gi-hun into stopping his mission, telling him, “You should’ve gotten on that plane. You’ll regret your decision.” Gi-hun, still defiant, replies, “I’ll find you no matter what,” signalling his intent to continue his pursuit to expose the games. He exits the airport, not getting on the plane, and instead takes a taxi to Seoul.
Gi-hun then enters a petrol station, where he purchases a box cutter. In the bathroom, he strips off his clothes, frantically searching for a tracker under his skin and finds something behind his ear. Without hesitation he cuts into his skin and pulls the tracker out and flushes it down the sink.
Meanwhile, Hwang Jun-ho wakes up in a hospital bed. His mother relieved that he's still alive, calls for the doctors.

2024[]
Fully recovered, Jun-ho works as a street officer. He catches someone not wearing a helmet while driving their motorcycle and pulls them over. As he tries doing his job, the lady on the back attempts to flirt with him in order to try avoid the fine, but he simply disregards her and gives the driver a fine. The driver takes off after receiving it, leaving the woman to desperately chase after him. His chief calls his name, and they both enter a restaurant to have a talk. They discuss the island where the games took place, and the chief says that they’ve searched the area that Jun-ho had described. However, he finds it hard to believe what Jun-ho is saying since there’s no solid evidence as the photos and videos he took and sent didn’t arrive (due to the lack of signal and his phone falling in the ocean), and when asked if he remembered what the person who shot him looked like, Jun-ho lies and says no. 
That evening, a couple arrive at motel; they argue whether to stay as the lights are off and no one’s answering. Gi-hun watches the CCTV cameras from inside. The buzzer in his apartment is frantically called yet there appears to be no one on the cameras. Suspicious, he approaches the door with a gun. A business card is slid under it with three symbols: circle, triangle, and square. The door opens and the Front Man is there. He asks Gi-hun if he's looking for something, after which the Front Man pulls out the heads of Sang-woo and Sae-byeok. Gi-hun screams and starts shooting at the Front Man but then wakes up, realizing it was a nightmare.
Gi-hun wakes up to the sound of buzzing. He grabs his gun, checks the security cameras and sees it's Kim Jeong-rae. Gi-hun and Jeong-rae sit together at at a table. Jeong-rae has brought food and medicine for Gi-hun, and asks him how is he feeling. Jeong-rae warns him to not overdo it, and that he'd burn himself out before he'd find The Recruiter. Kim informs Gi-hun that he has checked all subway stations lines one to four and found nothing. Gi-hun asks when he searched to which he replies, 10AM-10PM. Jeong-rae asks if the Recruiter knows that he's onto him as he has been searching for him for two years. Gi-hun tells him to extend the search from the first train to the last, and hands over a large bag of cash to fund it.
After many unsuccessful searches, Choi Woo-seok and Mr. Kim find the Recruiter playing ddakji with a man and follow him while updating Gi-hun. The Recruiter buys 100 portions of packaged bread and 100 lottery tickets. He then enters a park and offers various homeless people either the lottery ticket or the bread, only allowing them to pick one. Most of the homeless people (except for one) choose the lottery ticket and fail to win any money. The Recruiter drops leftover bread the homeless people didn't choose and stomps on them, destroying all of it. One of the homeless people asks him why he is wasting food, to which he replies that he is not the one who wasted the bread, but they are. 
Gi-hun drives frantically to catch up to Mr. Kim and Woo-seok, but his speeding gets him the attention of Jun-ho and his partner, who stop Gi-hun and issue him a speeding ticket. The younger officer informs Jun-ho that Gi-hun had various phones and tablets in his car, and wonders what his job is. Jun-ho realizes and recognizes that Gi-hun has no previous criminal record, but begins to investigate him, starting with his car. He searches the number plate and discovers it's a rental car. The company renting it is Sunshine Capital.
Mr. Kim and Woo-seok continue to follow the Recruiter and decide to fight him in an alleyway. The Recruiter swiftly knocks them out, then abducts them and locks them in a room. The two men wake up tied to chairs, with a bone-shaped gag in their mouths. The Recruiter forces the two to play a modified game of rock-paper-scissors combined with Russian roulette, which results in Mr. Kim's death.
Jun-ho breaks into Sunshine Capital's base of operations, seen earlier when Kim Jeong-rae was issuing the search. He narrowly misses getting caught, but discovers the squid game business card and files in relation to Gi-hun, including the car rental contract and Gi-hun's current place of residence, the Pink Motel.
The Recruiter confronts Gi-hun at the Pink Motel, where he expresses his surprise at how Gi-hun was able to win the games. Gi-hun then retaliates by calling him a lapdog. Angered, the Recruiter explains how he got to his current position: he initially cleared and incinerated the bodies of the Games' players, before one day being given a gun. He recalls how one day he went over to shoot a player who had lost, only to discover it was his father, who begged him for mercy. The Recruiter shot him and understood he truly was cut out for this. He was given his current role and asks Gi-hun if he thinks he's special for having won the games. The Recruiter proposes another game of Russian roulette, and applies a rule stating the chamber is not rotated each round, meaning the chances of survival decrease every time, and the revolver is guaranteed to kill by round six. Before Gi-hun shoots the fifth round (leaving him only a 50% chance of surviving), the Recruiter taunts Gi-hun, baiting him to cheat and shoot him instead, but if he does so, he has to admit that he is "trash, and just as worthless as everyone else and only made it out of the dumpster because [he] got lucky." 
Gi-hun doesn't take the bait and puts the gun to his own head, and to the Recruiter's shock, survives when he pulls the trigger. Gi-hun then repeats the Recruiter's words to him, challenging him to cheat and shoot him dead, but he has to admit to Gi-hun that he is a mere lapdog to those that host the Squid Games. The Recruiter grabs the gun, points it at his chin and pulls the trigger, killing himself instantly.

Cast[]
Starring[]
Lee Jung-jae as Seong Gi-hun
Lee Byung-hun as the Front Man/Hwang In-ho
Wi Ha-joon as Hwang Jun-ho
Yim Si-wan as Lee Myung-gi
Jo Yu-ri as Kim Jun-hee
Guest Starring[]
Gong Yoo as The Recruiter
Park Hae-soo as Cho Sang-woo (cameo)
Jung Ho-yeon as Kang Sae-byeok (cameo)
Jeon Seok-ho as Choi Woo-seok
Kim Pub-lae as Kim Jeong-rae, the Loan sharks leader
Oh Dal-su as Sea Captain Park
Co-Starring[]
Oh Chang-kyung as Chief Kim
Lee Woon-san as Mr. Kim's Subordinate #1
Choi Yoon-bin as Mr. Kim's Subordinate #2
Hwang Jae-hoon as Mr. Kim's Subordinate #3
Sun Yul-woo as Mr. Kim's Subordinate #4
Kang Yeo-jung as Motorcyclist' Girlfriend
Lee Na-hyun as Car Rental Clerk
Oh Hyun-soo as Ticket Seller
Kim Ji-suk as Motorcyclist
Jeon Young-soo voicing the Subway Announcer
Ha Young-son as Motel Boyfriend
Jun Bong-suk as Police Officer
Oh Chang-kyung as Detective
Son Da-yeon as Motel Girlfriend
Jeong Yun-yeong as Airport Taxi Driver
Gu Yu-jin as Bakery Clerk
Shin Young-ok as Homeless man #1
Ju Geu-nyang as Homeless man #2
Hong Ji-wan as Bathroom boy
Lee In-gyu as Gnomish Husband
Lee Hyung-seok as Chasing Taxi Driver
Jang Dae-hyun as Player 080
Deaths[]
Kim Jeong-rae (Shot in head with a revolver by the Recruiter)
The Recruiter (Shot himself under chin after losing Russian roulette against Seong Gi-hun)
Trivia[]
The episode's title is a reference to the choice that The Recruiter offers to homeless people.
This is the only episode in the series where Pink Guards didn't appears.
Kim Jeong-rae is the first death of this episode and the first death of the season.
Gallery[]

Promotional images[]

Squid GameSeason 1
Red Light, Green Light
Hell
The Man with the Umbrella
Stick to the Team
A Fair World
Gganbu
VIPS
Front Man
One Lucky Day
Season 2
Bread and Lottery
Halloween Party
001
Six Legs
One More Game
O X
Friend or Foe
Season 3
Keys and Knives
The Starry Night
It's Not Your Fault
222
⭘△☐
Humans Are...