Title: Cho Sang-woo/History
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Cho_Sang-woo/History
--------------------------------------------------
Contents

1 History

1.1 Backstory
1.2 2020
1.3 Re-entering the games
1.4 Betrayal and downfall
1.5 Fate
1.6 Legacy


2 References


History[]
Backstory[]
    Sang-woo with his mother after graduating from Seoul National University.  
Born in Ssangmun-dong, Seoul in 1975, Cho Sang-woo is the childhood best friend of Seong Gi-hun, with the two developing a very close and brotherly relationship.[1][2] Sang-woo and Gi-hun used to play children's games together, such as Squid Game, Sugar Honeycombs, and Red Light, Green Light, and Gi-hun would routinely take Sang-woo to school.
Sang-woo studied Business Administration at Seoul National University and graduated at the top of his class in 2001,[3] becoming a prodigy in the Ssangmun-dong neighbourhood. He later started to work as an investment banker and was the team leader of Team Two at Joy Investments. He eventually met his downfall when he siphoned money off from his clients to invest in the stock market and futures. He lost it all, which resulted in a total debt of ₩6 billion, only ₩650 million of which Squid Game organizers became aware of. Sang-woo also used his mother's shop and house as financial collateral in these investments.[4]

2020[]
Sang-woo is hunted by the police because of his debts. He later encountered The Recruiter who played a game of Ddakji with him, later giving him an invitation to the 33rd Squid Game. To prevent his mother's possessions from being taken, pay back his clients, and solve his money issues to avoid being sent to prison, Sang-woo accepted the offer to join the game.[5] After being taken to the island where the Squid Games takes place, Sang-woo began to feel sceptical about games, accusing the Guards of tricking and kidnapping him and the other 455 players because they were receiving very little information about the competition. Sang-woo later discovered that his childhood best friend, Seong Gi-hun, was also a participant.
The guards enter the room and welcome the players, explaining that they will play six games over six days, and that whoever wins all six games will win a lot of money. Some players express disbelief of the games, to which the guard says that they know the players are in large debts and that they need the money the games offer them to have a better life. They lead all the players through multiple staircases to the room for the first game, Red Light, Green Light. The game starts off in a room resembling a field with trees with a large doll and a finish line. At the starting line, a voice announces the rules of the game: they can move when the doll sings "무궁화 꽃이 피었습니다 (the hibiscus flower is blooming)",  but must stop when it finishes singing. Moving when it's not singing or not making it to the end in five minutes will result in being eliminated.

    Sang-woo looks on as Seong Gi-hun completes "Red Light, Green Light"  
Once the game begins, players 324 and 250 run quickly, determined to win first. Player 324 accidentally moves when the doll is quiet, causing him to be eliminated as a bang is heard when he falls to the floor. Player 250 checks on him and sees 324 dying and coughing up blood, making 250 run away and get shot as well. When his blood lands on Player 306's face, she screams in horror and is then killed for moving. This leads to a bunch of players trying to run away in panic as they see what "elimination" truly means, with only some surviving due to them staying in place. Eventually, everyone is either still or dead, with the voice once again reminding of the rules of the game. The game resumes, but every player is too afraid to move forward, with the exception of Oh Il-nam, Player 001, who is enjoying himself despite the carnage. Eventually, other players start to follow his lead, with those who are careless getting eliminated. Sang-woo hid behind other players to avoid the doll detecting his movements. When he saw Gi-hun struggling, he advised him to do the same, and they both made it through the game.[6]

    Sang-woo during the Sugar Honeycombs game.  
After the first game, all the surviving contestants are brought back to the dormitory. The guards enter and congratulate the players for winning the first game, stating that 255 players were eliminated. At this, several players beg to be let go from the games, promising that they will pay off their debts. A guard clarifies that the point of the games are not to punish the players for their debts, but to give them a second chance.
After being reminded that players who refuse to participate will be killed, Sang-woo invokes the third clause of the consent form that says the game can be ended if the majority vote to leave. The guards agree to the voting but show the cash prize first, with a gigantic transparent piggy bank being lowered from the ceiling that begins to be filled up with stacks of cash totalling ₩25 billion. They reveal that each contestant is worth ₩100 million and that the total prize pot will be ₩45.6 billion. The guards further explain that the players can make a choice between leaving or staying, and set up a voting machine with two buttons - a circle to continue and an X to leave. If they leave, they don't get any of the prize money. Sang-woo votes to continue the games, as do many others including North Korean defector Kang Sae-byeok. The vote remains neck-and-neck all throughout, as some players want to end the games but others are desperate to win the prize money. A fight nearly breaks out as the contestants who want to leave get angry with those who want to continue, necessitating intervention from the guards. The counterargument to leaving is that their lives outside of the game aren't going to improve; at least in the games, they have a chance to get the money. It's Player 001, the old man with the brain tumor, who gets to cast the deciding vote and break the 100-100 tie. He selects to quit the game.
Sang-woo is dropped off with Player 199, a Pakistani immigrant named Ali Abdul, who saved Gi-hun in the first game. Ali asks Sang-woo if he can borrow his phone to make a call. Sang-woo agrees to this, but his phone is dead, so he goes to a nearby convenience store with Ali to buy a phone charger and some ramen. When he charges his phone, he receives a torrent of messages from the authorities relating to his financial crimes. He nevertheless gives Ali cash for a bus ride back home, who proceeds to thank him profusely. Later, he called his mother and told her he was abroad. Sang-woo is afraid to meet his mother, so he watches her from afar while she organizes her fish store. Gi-hun encounters him here.
Sang-woo confesses to Gi-hun that he has debts totalling ₩6 billion due to a series of bad investments in futures and had put his mother's store up as collateral in one of those dealings, and he can't pay any of it back. Sang-woo later speaks to his mother over the phone, lying to her that he is on a business trip in the USA. After ending the call, Sang-woo's mother is talking up her son's success to a customer when two police officers approach her and inform her that Sang-woo has a warrant out for his arrest, being charged with forgery, embezzlement, and other crimes related to fraud, much to her shock and disbelief. Meanwhile, Sang-woo is lying in a bathtub in a motel, inhaling toxic fumes from charcoal in an attempt to commit suicide. He is interrupted by someone ringing his doorbell, and when he answers it, he finds a business card to enter in the games again. He decided to return to the game.[5]

Re-entering the games[]
Re-joining the Squid Game, he reconnected with the other players, including Gi-hun, but he felt nervous, knowing that he'd have to compete against all of them at some point. Gi-hun proposed to form a team, which Sang-woo agreed. Their initial team was composed by Gi-hun, Sang-woo, Ali and the elderly participant Oh Il-nam. After another player, Kang Sae-byeok, had gone off earlier to find out what the second game would be about, Sang-woo approached her and questioned about what she discovered. She told Sang-woo that the crew was melting something in large pots, and it smelt like sugar. Later, upon viewing the shapes on the doors of the playground, Sang-woo guessed the game (Sugar Honeycombs) although he was not completely sure of it, because the circle and the triangle were part of the same shape when he played this game as a child.[7] Instead of notifying his guess to his teammates, he chose to keep it to himself, seeing no reason to guide all the others to the easiest shape.[7] Sang-woo then picked the simplest shape to cut out while telling the others to split by choosing different ones. However, he is taken aback by Gi-hun choice's of the umbrella, which is the most difficult shape to cut if his guess was correct. Sang-woo tries unsuccessfully to warn his friend not to pick that shape.[8]  As the game started Sang-woo confirmed his guess was right. When the game ended, Sang-woo is relieved to learn that Gi-hun survived.[9]

     Sang-woo with the other members of Seong Gi-hun's team during the Special Game.  
When Jang Deok-su and his gang attacked other players late at night in order to reduce the number of competitors and boost the amount of money, Sang-woo vigorously fought them off and assisted his teammates in defending themselves.
Later that morning, the players are told to divide into teams of 10 for the next game. Sang-woo tells Gi-hun that they need more men for the game, and they look for 5 more players to join their team. Ali meets with Player 276, and they join as a team as they realize their similarities as foreigners. Sang-woo then convinces Player 196 to join his team. Gi-hun asks Player 244, a pastor, if he can join his team, and 244 agrees. Sae-byeok, looking for another member, finds Ji-yeong by herself, so she asks her to join her team. The team is short of a member, with Sang-woo complaining that their team is weak and that they'll end up with people who got kicked out. Mi-nyeo hears this, and walks into the circle, joining the team, saying that she's better than Sae-byeok and Ji-yeong because they're wimpy. The timer then runs out, and the game starts.
The teams get led outside to another room. A guard reveals that they will play Tug of War, explaining the rules of the game. The guard then draws lots, deciding which teams will play in the game. Team 4 (Gi-hun's team) and Team 5 then get chosen for the second round. Player 001 notices his teammates are scared and gets to motivating them, explaining that Tug of War is more than just raw strength - it takes good teamwork and strategic thinking, but his ideas are dismissed by Player 244 and Player 196 due to his old age. Gi-hun tells them to just listen to what the old man has to say. Il-nam explains his method: at the front, a good leader is important, as the rest of the team relies on the leader to be confident in themselves; with an unreliable leader, they don't have as much a hold. In the back, a strong and dependable teammate is placed as an anchor. Meanwhile the rest of the players should be on opposite ends of the rope per player, both feet should face straight forward, and the rope should be held in their armpits so players can balance and put in all of their strength. Finally, they must hold their ground and lean back for 10 seconds. If done right, this will tire out the opposing team. The two teams get ready as the guards chain them to the rope; Gi-hun is chosen as the leader, while Ali acts as the anchor.
When the round starts, Team 4 holds their ground and Team 5 is unable to make much progress. Sure enough, Team 5's leader slips, and Team 4 immediately starts pulling the rope back. However, right as Team 5 is about to fall off their platform, they pull themselves together at the last second and gain the upper hand. As Team 4 is on the edge of falling, Sang-woo saves the team by thinking of a last-second strategy. As they were being dragged and were on the verge of falling to death, he told his team to take three steps forward to knock down their adversaries, allowing him and his teammates to win the game.[9][10]

     Sang-Woo, during final 3's dinner  
Later, while eating dinner, Sang-woo recalls the previous night's riot and advises his team to be prepared in case it occurs again. Their group moves sections of their beds after Gi-hun urges them to set up a barricade. Sang-woo and Gi-hun then advise Sae-byeok and the others to take turns resting and keeping watch in pairs during the night to protect the members of their team. Sang-woo and Ali bond as they keep watch to protect the rest of the team as they sleep, and Ali starts talking about his family. Most of his family lives back in Pakistan, and he brought his wife and son with him to work in Korea in hope of a better life. Being a poor immigrant without much money made him want to participate in the games. Ali then asks Sang-woo why he joined the games, Sang-woo replies that it's for the same reason: he has no money. [10]
The surviving players proceed to the next game and have to pick a partner. As the players walk through the staircase room, they notice the bodies of Byeong-gi and his co-conspirators strung up. The Front Man then says over the intercom that the game was created with equality in mind and reiterates that there is no tolerance for cheating in the games. Sang-woo opted to partner up with Ali for the game, stating that with a combination of smarts and strength, they'd be able to beat the other teams. They are then introduced to the fourth game, Marbles. To win the game, the players have to try to steal all of their opponent's marbles without violence while playing a game of their choice with them. The person who ends up with no marbles is eliminated and killed. They have a time limit of 30 minutes, and if no one wins by then, both players will be eliminated. Their opponent in the game is who they chose to be their partner - this comes as a shock to everyone as they had partnered up with someone they trust, not knowing what the game really was.

Betrayal and downfall[]
     Sang-woo and Ali Abdul during the Marbles game.  
Sang-woo and Ali begin playing the game. Ali supposedly doesn't know how to play that well, so Sang-woo teaches him, and Ali ends up gaining the upper-hand quickly. Sang-woo quickly grows nervous of Ali, and though Ali is clearly unhappy about beating Sang-woo, the latter forces him to keep playing. Eventually, Sang-woo is down to his last marble and furiously accuses Ali of cheating. Ali denies this, and before Sang-woo can grow more violent, he is stopped by one of the guards at gunpoint. Sang-woo then begs Ali for his life and for his family, as he can't die and leave his mother. But Ali says that he has a family and a life too. Sang-woo, as a last resort, tells Ali of a plan where they can both survive, by finding other teams that have not yet finished their games. Sang-woo explains that when the timer runs out, some teams may still have no winner, and the guards will have the remaining players play a new game in teams, which they can then both win. Sang-woo sends Ali to find stronger players to recruit into their team, and ties Ali's pouch of marbles around his neck to prevent anyone else from stealing them. Ali seems hesitant, but ultimately trusts Sang-woo and goes off to find other pairs.
However, while Ali is away, Sang-woo reveals that he had taken all of the marbles for himself, replacing the ones in Ali's pouch with rocks, and informs a guard that he has won the challenge. Ali has finished searching the compound, but sees Sang-woo already at the exit about to be led out by a guard, who pauses when Ali screams his name. Shocked, Ali checks his pouch, and when finding no marbles he realizes that he had been manipulated by his friend all along. He is then shot by a guard, while Sang-woo can only look away, as he seems to be on the brink of tears.
For the next game all the players were instructed to choose a number between 1 and 16: Sang-woo picked 14. The game was then revealed to be Glass Stepping Stones, and being near the back turned out to be an advantage. After all the other players were eliminated and only four remained, Sang-woo, Gi-hun and Sae-byeok were guided by Do Jung-soo, Player 017, who worked as a glass manufacturer. Just as they were running out of time, the Front Man turned off the lights, removing Player 017's advantage and making him stop as he became unable to guess the final tile they should step on. For wasting too much time, Sang-woo pushed Player 017 off the bridge, allowing him and the others to get to the other side within the time limit.[11] Following this game, Sang-woo and Gi-hun argue over Player 017's death, with Sang-woo claiming that they would all have died if he had not pushed the man as he was taking up too much time. Gi-hun then asked Sang-woo if he would have killed him if he was in Player 017's position - Sang-woo didn't answer, but he tore into Gi-hun for being irresponsible and always getting into trouble, to which Gi-hun responded that Sang-woo was no better and has no one to blame but himself for his own dire financial situation. This causes the two friends to fall out with each other and become enemies.[12]
As one of the finalists of the Squid Game, along with Gi-hun and Sae-byeok, he was gifted a suit and served a fancy dinner. When the players were done eating, he and the others were each left a steak knife. Still disturbed by Sang-woo's murder of Player 017, Gi-hun tried to assassinate Sang-woo while he was sleeping, but was stopped by Sae-byeok, who told Gi-hun that he "wasn't a murderer". However, Gi-hun noticed that Sae-byeok was bleeding to death from a glass shrapnel wound she received in the last game. He started to bang on the doors of the room and call for the guards to help, resulting in Sang-woo waking up from the noise. Seeing the other man desperate, Sang-woo realized that Gi-hun might end up giving up the games to save Sae-byeok. This caused Sang-woo to get up from his bed and fatally stab Sae-byeok in neck while Gi-hun still had his back turned.[7] Sang-woo's murder of Sae-byeok made Gi-hun furious, and he attempted to attack him with his knife but was stopped by the guards.[12]
Sang-woo and Gi-hun are now in the final round, Squid Game, with Gi-hun playing as offense and Sang-woo as defence. A Manager takes them to the game arena (the same field where Red Light, Green Light was played) and tells them the rules. The players get into position and get ready to play. Gi-hun easily completes the first few stages of the game, throwing sand into Sang-woo's eyes to distract him and managing to cross the squid's middle. As the two players continue the game, it soon begins to rain. An argument begins between the two former friends: Sang-woo claims that killing Sae-byeok was a mercy kill as she was already bleeding to death from her mortal injury, but Gi-hun sees through Sang-woo's lies. Eventually, Sang-woo admits he killed Sae-byeok to prevent her and Gi-hun from obtaining the majority vote to end the game, which would have prevented him from winning any money.

You're the reason that I had to kill her. I knew you two would stop all this so she didn't die in here. Yea! Going home without a single cent, I can't do that!
Sang-woo explaining why he did it to Seong Gi-hun in One Lucky Day
The game then erupts into a violent brawl, the players abandon the game rules and begin a brutal and bloody fistfight to the death. Sang-woo gains the upper hand after viciously stabbing Gi-hun in the thigh and is about to deliver the killing blow, but Gi-hun stops the knife by grabbing it, which impales his hand. Gi-hun bites Sang-woo's shin, causing the latter to scream in pain, giving Gi-hun the upper hand. Gi-hun pins Sang-woo to the ground, punches him repeatedly and takes the knife from his hand. However, Gi-hun refuses to kill Sang-woo and stabs the knife in the ground, walking towards the Squid's head and therefore towards victory.

Fate[]
     Gi-hun breaks down after Sang-woo's death  
Just as Gi-hun is about to win, he decides to eventually give up to save Sang-woo's life, invoking the 3rd clause of the Agreement Form, much to the shock of the VIPs. Gi-hun offers Sang-woo his hand and a chance to go back home. The two reminisce about old times and Sang-woo slowly reaches for Gi-hun's hand. However, Sang-woo stops and apologizes to Gi-hun before grabbing the knife beside him and stabbing himself in the neck. Gi-hun is caught completely off guard, and cradles a dying Sang-woo in his arms, distraught but helpless as his old friend bleeds to death. Sang-woo chokes out the words "My mom...", asking Gi-hun to help his mother with his prize money. This final straw emotionally shatters Gi-hun, who breaks down crying uncontrollably at the loss of his childhood best friend as he's declared the winner of the games.

Legacy[]
One year after Sang-woo's death, Gi-hun eventually fulfils his friend's wish by entrusting Sang-woo's mother with Sae-byeok's brother, Kang Cheol. Alongside this, he gives her a suitcase full of money, with a note attached that reads "The money I owe Sang-woo".[13]
In "Bread and Lottery", a scene shows Gi-hun looking over four cameras watching some parts of his local area, only to be met by Front Man repeatedly ringing his doorbell. As Gi-hun grabs his gun and slowly approaches his door, a card slips under his door, potentially inviting him for the next Squid Game. As Gi-hun opens his door, he is greeted by the Front Man, who shows the heads of Sang-woo and Sae-byeok, asking if Gi-hun was "looking for these?" Gi-hun then repeatedly fires his gun at the Front Man in fear and retaliation, before realizing it was just a nightmare.

References[]

↑ Netflix’s ‘Squid Game’ Cast and Director Talk About Bringing the Korean Survival Show to Life

↑ Lee Jung Jae And Park Hae Soo Are Two Sides Of The Same Coin In “Squid Game”

↑ Sang-woo's mother has a picture with him near SNU's main gate during the 55th graduation ceremony. Seoul National University was founded in 1946.

↑ Hell

↑ 5.0 5.1 Hell

↑ Red Light, Green Light

↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 Squid Game Cast Review the Biggest Betrayals in Season One | Vanity Fair

↑ The Man with the Umbrella

↑ 9.0 9.1 Stick to the Team

↑ 10.0 10.1 A Fair World

↑ VIPS

↑ 12.0 12.1 Front Man

↑ One Lucky Day