Title: Cho Sang-woo
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Cho_Sang-woo
--------------------------------------------------
Cho Sang-woo





							2020 (Finalist)
							
						



							2020 (Player)
							
						



							2001
							
						



							1980s
							
						

































Name
Cho Sang-woo


Aliases
Player 218 (33rd Squid Game)Number 14The Pride of Ssangmun-dong (by Seong Gi-hun)Ssangmun-Dong's Golden Child (by Seong Gi-hun)Skilled Corporal (by Seong Gi-hun)Famous Prodigy (by Seong Gi-hun)The Genius Cho Sang-woo of SNU (by Seong Gi-hun)Sir (사장님 Sajangnim?) (by Ali Abdul)Hyung (형 Hyeong?) (by Ali Abdul)Oppa (오빠 Oppa?) (by Han Mi-nyeo)


Family
Unnamed mother


Relationships
AlliesSeong Gi-hun † (childhood best friend, briefly enemy and attempted savior)Ali Abdul † (close friend/brother figure, forced rival in Marbles and indirect victim)Oh Il-nam †NeutralKang Sae-byeok † (former ally and victim)Han Mi-nyeo † (former enemy; teammate in Tug of War)Player 244 † (Teammate in Tug of War)Player 196 † (Teammate in Tug of War)Player 276 † (Teammate in Tug of War)Ji-yeong † (Teammate in Tug of War)Do Jeong-soo †  (former ally in Glass Stepping Stones and victim out of desperation)Team Five †  (situational rivals, victims)EnemiesJang Deok-su †Byeong-gi †Player 040 †Player 278 †Player 303 †Player 113 †Player 413 †Player 069 † (attempted ally in Tug of War; indirect victim)


Affiliation
Seoul National UniversityJoy Investments (formerly)Squid Games33rd Squid GameTeam Four (as leader)


Occupation
Investment banker (formerly)


Born
c. 1975[1]Ssangmun-dong, Dobong-gu, Seoul, South Korea


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
June 30, 2020 (aged 46)Squid Game


Cause of death
Committed suicide by stabbing himself in neck



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Brown


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Park Hae-soo (adult)Lim Tae-hoon (stunt double)Park Si-won (child)





First appearance
Last appearance




"Red Light, Green Light"
"Bread and Lottery" (vision)







Voting




Round 1











When we were kids, you and I would play like this, and our moms would call us for dinner. No one's calling anymore…
Sang-woo's final words to his childhood best friend, Seong Gi-hun in "One Lucky Day"

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 217
Player 219







Cho Sang-woo (조상우 Jo Sang-u?), also known as Player 218, was a childhood friend of Seong Gi-hun who participated in the 33rd Squid Game alongside him. He was as well a Finalist of the competition and one of the 2 Deutergonists (alongside Kang Sae-byeok) and later one of the two main antagonists (alongside Oh Il-nam) of Season 1.
A prodigy from the neighborhood of Ssangmun-dong, Sang-woo graduated from the prestigious Seoul National University. He had a successful career in finance and ended up in deep debt when used his clients' money to make several investments that failed. He went on the run from authorities and eventually entered Squid Game, where he reunited with Gi-hun.
A fairly cunning player, Sang-woo used strategy and deception to survive through the games, eliminating several players, including some of his own allies.

Contents

1 Personality
2 History
3 Relationships

3.1 Seong Gi-hun
3.2 Ali Abdul


4 Kill count
5 Quotes
6 Trivia
7 Behind the scenes
8 Appearances
9 Quotes
10 Gallery

10.1 Season 1
10.2 Season 2
10.3 Promotional
10.4 Behind the scenes


11 References


Personality
You're the reason that I had to kill her. I knew you two would stop all this so she didn't die in here. Yea! Going home without a single cent, I can't do that!
Sang-woo explaining why he did it to Seong Gi-hun in "One Lucky Day"
Sang-woo's main trait is his intelligence. He is an extremely bright person and capable of quickly figuring out solutions to problems, even in extremely stressful and life-threatening situations, which is demonstrated when he saved his team during the Tug of War game.[2][3] Sang-woo relies mostly on logic than on emotion to make his decisions. He also has a strong determination to accomplish his goals. However, this also makes him willing to resort to questionable means to ensure his success. Sang-woo is not easily fooled and is capable of manipulating people, a trait he employs to his advantage during the Marbles game of the 33rd Squid Game. Sang-woo is determined to win the competition, as he views it as his final chance to solve his financial issues, and knows fully well that he will have to go to great lengths to win.I don't trust anything you just said. You tricked us. Kidnapped us. Imprisoned us. And now, you're gonna keep making excuses not to show your faces to us. So give us one reason we should believe anything you say.
Sang-woo telling the Manager before the start of the games in "Red Light, Green Light"     Sang-woo spying on his mother.  
Being in heavy debt after failing in his investments caused him to become desperate, especially because his mother's belongings would be confiscated after he used them as financial collateral in failed investments. As a former Business Administration student of SNU, his entire neighborhood, including his mother, had high expectations for his future. Because of his immense failure, he is not able to face his mother and tell her the truth. The failure also nearly drives him to commit suicide in his motel restroom after the games were halted due to a majority vote, before being offered another chance to play the Squid Game.[4]
Despite being a rational with a calculated nature, and also apparently fully self-centered and cold-blooded by the end of the competition, he isn't really cold-hearted.[5][6] Helping his mother is the sole reason he decided to enter the Squid Game in the first place and his entire drive to win the games stems from the fact that he needs the prize money to prevent her from being left destitute by his own mistakes, showing that he genuinely cares about her. Outside the games, he is shown to be polite and friendly, which is seen when he assists Ali Abdul with getting a bus ride home in Seoul.[4] This behavior remains throughout most of the games. Sang-woo acts as a good teammate, being the brains of his and Gi-hun's group, helping them to make the decisions and plans along with Seong Gi-hun, with the two of them usually operating as co-leaders despite their team not officially having a leader. Sang-woo shows to be willing to help others when his own life is not at risk. He helps Gi-hun during the Red Light, Green Light game by telling him that the doll is a motion sensor.[7] When Player 271 gets beaten to death, Sang-woo is seen holding Gi-hun back from jumping in to protect him and is the first person to check on the man, being genuinely upset to see had passed away from his injuries. Sang-woo later goes to Gi-hun's rescue during the Special Round (when Jang Deok-su and his gang are murdering the other contestants) and he saves his friend from the attackers before helping their team to protect Kang Sae-byeok.[2] When Player 069 committed suicide following the death of his wife in Marbles he was genuinely disturbed and saddened by his death, possibly due to the fact he indirectly caused it.   
On the other hand, Sang-woo plays the Squid Game trying to not become emotionally attached to other players, as he is aware of the high likelihood of them dying, including by facing him during the games. However, he ends up genuinely connecting with Ali Abdul, to the point the he allows his new friend to call him "older brother" (형 Hyung?) instead of "sir" (사장님 Sajangnim?).[3] This ultimately causes him to choose Ali as his partner in the Marbles game, believing that the two of them will be a formidable pair against the other players, only for him to find out they will have to face each other, instead of playing together. In the end, Sang-woo takes advantage of their new developed trust to save himself by manipulating Ali and letting him die to win the game. Despite this, Sang-woo hesitates to leave when hears Ali calling for him and is stunned as he hears Ali being shot and the announcer saying that Ali was eliminated, indicating he doesn't do it without remorse.[8]

     Sang-woo looks at the Organ traffickers's dead bodies.  
The other person Sang-woo has a connection with is Gi-hun. Among the players, Gi-hun is the closest one to him because they have known each other since childhood, when they became as close as brothers.[9][10] Besides willingly helping him during the first game and the Special Round, he also shows concern for Gi-hun even when he sees no reason to tell the others his guess about the Sugar Honeycombs game,[11] keeping the advantage solely for himself. He is alarmed when Gi-hun chooses the umbrella, the most difficult option, and is relieved when his friend survives the game.[12][2] He also worries about Gi-hun's state of mind throughout the games; he looks at him in concern while Gi-hun is visibly feeling remorseful after killing their adversary team in the Tug of War, he later questions if he is okay when Gi-hun seems to have a nightmare during the night.[3] He also tries to comfort Gi-hun about Oh Il-nam's elimination, reminding him that Il-nam is someone he only met recently during the games,[13] which might be something Sang-woo is also telling himself about Ali. 
As the games progresses and the number eliminated players increases, Sang-woo also becomes increasingly more ruthless to win, disregarding others' lives. His actions take his kind-hearted friend Gi-hun by surprise. Not being able to understand each other causes animosity between the two of them, resulting in Sang-woo cutting ties with Gi-hun and Sae-byeok and isolating himself before the final game.[14] Later, Sang-woo's murder of Sae-byeok makes Gi-hun furious, leading the two friends to a mortal confrontation during the Squid Game. Despite caring about Gi-hun, in the final game, Sang-woo is willing even to kill his friend to win, having made it clear that he would do anything to survive and get the prize money. However, upon being beaten, Sang-woo recognizes his defeat. He is touched when Gi-hun attempts to stop the games to save him. Sang-woo ultimately apologizes to Gi-hun before rejecting his offer, instead choosing to kill himself out of remorse for his actions and to allow his friend to win and take the prize money.[15] Being aware of Gi-hun's kindness, he trusts that his friend will help his mother in his place. 

History
For a comprehensive history, see Cho Sang-woo/History
Relationships
Seong Gi-hun
Sang-woo is Gi-hun's childhood best friend. They often played games together. Gi-hun mentioned giving Sang-woo rides to school. Sang-woo often calls Gi-hun "hyung", which means older brother, male friend, or senior.

Ali Abdul
Sang-woo takes on a mentor-like role, guiding Ali through the challenges of the deadly games. The marble game is the turning point of their friendship, where Sang-woo stole Ali's marbles and replaced them with nearby rocks, killing him indirectly.

Kill count
Confirmed killsAttempted killsIndirect killsSaves


Character

Information

Image/GIF


"A Fair World"Tug of War


Team 5

Main reason that caused Team 5 to fall off the Tug of War's platform by Gi-hun’s team to their deaths, losing the game.




"Gganbu"Marbles


Ali Abdul(Player 199)

Shot in the head by a soldier; caused by Sang-woo after manipulating him into unknowingly handing him all of his marbles.




"VIPS"Glass Stepping Stones


Do Jeong-soo(Player 017)

Pushed off of the walkable glass bridge into the wrong tile, leading to him falling to his death; done in order to save Himself, Gi-hun and Sae-byeok.




"Front Man"Final Dinner


Kang Sae-byeok(Player 067)

Stabbed in the throat to prevent Gi-hun from ending the games.




"One Lucky Day"Squid Game


Himself

Committed suicide by stabbing himself in the throat out of regret for what he did and to let Gi-hun win in order for him to help his mother.





Character

Information

Image/GIF


"Hell"Motel


Himself

Attempted suicide by inhaling toxic fumes; Interrupted by a doorbell for a card to rejoin the games.




"The Man with the Umbrella"Sugar Honeycombs


Ali Abdul(Player 199)

Indirectly attempted by telling them it would be smarter to split up for the game, even though he knew it was Dalgona and that the triangle would be the easiest shape.




Seong Gi-hun(Player 456)


Oh Il-nam(Player 001)


"Stick to the Team"Special Game


Player 413

Attempted to beat him to death with a metal bar to stop him from killing Seong Gi-hun.




Player 113

Attempted to beat him to death with a metal bar alongside Ali; eventually 113 ran away




Player 303

Attempted to beat him to death with a metal bar; blocked by Player 040.




"One Lucky Day"Squid Game


Seong Gi-hun(Player 456)

Attempted to kill via strangulation; later attempted to kill by stabbing him in the face; interrupted by Gi-hun blocking the stab with his hand.

 



Character

Information

Image/GIF


"VIPS"Dormitory


Player 069

Indirectly and unintentionally caused by shattering his hope after his wife's death, leading to him hanging himself.





Character

Information

Image/GIF


"Red Light, Green Light"Red Light, Green Light.


Seong Gi-hun(Player 456)

Told Gi-hun that they didn't have a lot of time yet after the panic of Red Light, Green Light and that he needed to be move or he would killed for running out of time.

 


"Hell"Voting


The Non-returners(Player 066, Player 090, Player 117 and 11 unknown players)

Mentioned to the guards Clause 3 of the consent form, which allowed the voting to happen, after the X's won, 14 out of the 201 refused to return to the games




"Hell"Sugar Honeycombs


Kang Sae-byeok(Player 067)

Indirectly saved by choosing the triangle shape after Sae-byeok told him they were melting sugar, making him realise the next game would require carving out a Dalgona, leading to her following him.

  


"A Fair World"Tug of War


Team 4

Saved the whole team by coming up with the plan to take a few steps forward, allowing them to successfully pass.




"VIPS"Glass Stepping Stones


Seong Gi-hun(Player 456)

Pushed Do Jeong-soo into the wrong glass panel after realising the time was running out; had he not done this, the time would've run out and all four would have died.




Kang Sae-byeok(Player 067)


"One Lucky Day"Squid Game


Seong Gi-hun(Player 456)

Committed suicide, allowing Gi-hun to win the games and return home safely.



Quotes

Consent form clause 3, if the majority agrees to stop playing, the games are allowed to end. Or am I wrong? Let's vote on ending this. If the majority wishes to leave this place, then everyone is allowed to go home, right?
Cho Sang-woo reffering to Clause 3 in order to start a vote on ending the games in "Hell"
The Hell did you expect huh? Get it together. We'll be killing everyone if we want that money. Think about it for just one second. You should be happy that someone whos not afraid to get his hands dirty.
Cho Sang-woo to Seong Gi-hun after Glass Bridge in "Front Man"
I did it to end her suffer. You know she would've died anyway
Sang-woo explaining why he killed Kang Sae-byeok to Gi-hun in "One Lucky Day"

Trivia
Sang-woo, Seong Gi-hun and Hwang In-ho are the only characters that appeared in all nine episodes of Season One.
While Sae-Byeok did technically appear in One Lucky Day, she was only seen in a photo.
Sang-woo had the most potential to win the 33rd Squid Game. If he had not killed himself, it is highly likely he would have either won or ended the games with Gi-Hun.
Hwang Dong-hyuk stated that he perceives Sang-woo and Gi-hun as fraternal twins, and part of the casting of the two characters was to make them look like they are because he wanted them to emulate this relationship. Dong-hyuk explains that fraternal twins are very close in childhood, but look different despite coming from the same mother, and they usually go on different paths in life.[10][9]
In an interview, Lee Jung-jae stated that they are not biologically related, but still close as if they were.[16]
It is unknown if Sang-woo had a friendship with Jung-bae.
Cho Sang-woo is one of the seven characters confirmed to be a smoker. The others are Seong Gi-hun, Park Jung-bae, Thanos, Han Mi-nyeo, Jang Deok-su and The Masked Officer.
Sang-woo is the only known player whose exact debt is unknown to the Squid Game organizers, as although his debt is listed as ₩650 million, it is actually ₩6 billion.
He is the only O voter to commit suicide along with Han Mi-nyeo and Player 039.
If the 33rd Squid Game had followed the rules of the 37th, Sang Woo's debt would have been more than paid after Glass Stepping Stones, specifically after the death of Min-tae.
This means that had the 37th rules applied, he may not have killed Sae-byeok.
The character from The Hunger Games franchise whose death that Sang-Woo's is most similar to is Silka Sharp from Sunrise on the Reaping:
They both voluntarily entered a win-or-death competition that they tragically fell one spot short of victory in: Silka into the 50th Hunger Games and Sang-Woo into the 33rd Squid Games. However, while Silka entered for glory and fame, Sang-Woo did it because he was in heavy debt.
There was a massive wealth gap between them and the final character they faced off against: Sang-Woo from Gi-Hun and Silka from Haymitch Abernathy, whom they both started fighting against after they killed one of their allies (Sang-Woo killed Sae-Byeok and Silka killed Wellie). He and Silka both lived comfortable lives from some point before entering the games, while their final opponents struggled through various factors before their victories: Gi-hun was in deep debt because of loan sharks and a gambling addiction, while Haymitch came from District 12, the poorest part of Panem, the country he lived in.
The difference between the two is while Silka barely knew Haymitch and were enemies throughout their game, Sang-Woo and Gi-hun had known each other for years since childhood and already had a close bond.
Both of the people Sang-woo and Silka lost to also returned home only to find their respective families dead- Gi-hun returned too late to help his sick mother while the government of Panem killed Haymitch's remaining family and girlfriend because of his repeated acts of defiance before and during the games. Ultimately, both Gi-hun and Haymitch spiraled into a deep depression soon after for some time, pushing away their close friends, before finally rediscovering the strength needed that motivated them to take down the respective games they played in. Haymitch never reconciled with his friends while Gi-hun and Jung-bae did.
Both Sang-Woo and Silka also died by their own weapon- Sang-Woo stabbed himself in the throat out of guilt, having nothing left to live for, so Gi-hun could live and help his mother, knowing that he would be a better person than him; Silka threw her axe at Haymitch in a last-ditch attempt to kill him, but Haymitch dodged the attack in time, causing the axe to rebound off of a nearby force field and fatally lodge itself in Silka's head. The difference, however, is that Sang-Woo voluntarily died, whereas Silka did not.
In "Humans Are...", Gi-hun used a technique used by Sang-woo in Season 1. The tactic is that if the opponent has a knife, wrap your jacket around your hand to avoid being stabbed. Sang-woo used this tactic against Gi-hun in Squid Game, and Gi-hun used it against Myung-gi in Sky Squid Game.
Sang-woo is the last player to die in the 33rd Squid Game
It is likely Sang-woo has good proficiency even possible fluency in the English language since his mother said he travels on business a lot probably to the USA.
Behind the scenes
Cho Sang-woo was portrayed by Park Hae-soo and Lim Tae-hoon as a stunt recreation. The younger version of Sang-woo was portrayed by actor Park Si-won. In the English dub, he is voiced by Stephen Fu. 

Appearances
Season One
"Red Light, Green Light"
"Hell"
"The Man with the Umbrella"
"Stick to the Team"
"A Fair World"
"Gganbu"
"VIPS"
"Front Man"
"One Lucky Day"
Season Two
"Bread and Lottery" (nightmare vison)
"Halloween Party" (name shown)
"Six Legs" (indirectly mentioned)
Quotes
Well, I don’t believe you one bit. You got that? You tricked us, we were kidnapped. You can make as many excuses as you want to make sure nobody knows you broke the law in here. So give us one reason why we should believe you.
Cho Sang-woo initially doubting Squid Game Listen Gi-hun, don't look back just listen, you can't stay there that much longer, I think the doll senses for people moving. You won't get caught if you're behind someone. The timer...
Cho Sang-woo guiding Gi-hun in Red Light, Green Light (game) Consent Form clause 3! If all the players agree to stop playing, the games are allowed the end. Or am I wrong?
Cho Sang-woo remembering the consent form in HellGet yourselves together and listen! Lets try something, take 3 steps up when I signal!
Cho Sang-woo coming up with a trick in Tug of War in A Fair WorldDon't worry too much about it, he was just a random guy you knew for only a few days. See him? His partner was his wife.
Cho Sang-woo comforting Gi-hun after Marbles in VIPSAnd what if we leave? Is your wife going to come back, and forgive you for letting her get murdered? If you can't keep going then why are you still alive? You should have been the one who died instead of her! See that? Thats the prize of being in here, and your wife and the others paid it with their lives. And you want to go and leave, you want to start from the beginning again, with nothing but that guilt, are you ready to do that?!
Cho Sang-woo to Player 069 about why leaving after Marbles is a bad idea in VIPSThen just try one!
Cho Sang-woo before pushing Do Jeong-soo to the wrong tile in Glass Stepping StonesYou got lucky waiting at the back of the line. Must have gotten how things were. What if that guy ended up wasting our time like that criminal, would you have done nothing?
Cho Sang-woo to Gi-hun why he pushed Do Jeong-soo Sang-woo: She was going to die anyway. I just ended her pain quickly.Gi-hun: Don't give me that bullshit. She was alive, and could've been saved.Sang-woo: That's why I killed her. Because I know how you are. Because you would've given everything up just to save her.Gi-hun: Was that it? Were you afraid I'd give up?Sang-woo: That's right! Because if you two gave up, it would've been all over! I'd have to leave here without a penny!Gi-hun: If it hadn't been for her, I would've killed you with this knife. You... will never leave here with that money.
Sang-woo and Gi-hun's final conversation before their fight in "One Lucky Day"
Gi-hun: Let's go... Let's go home.Sang-woo: Gi-hun... I'm sorry...Gi-hun: Sang-woo! Sang-woo...Sang-woo: Gi-hun...Gi-hun: No, Sang-woo. Don't talk. Sang-woo...Sang-woo: My mom... my mom...Gi-hun: No. Don't. Sang-woo, no... Sang-woo...
Sang-woo's final moments and dying words to Gi-hun in "One Lucky Day"
Gallery
Season 1
Young Sang-woo. (on the right)Ditto.Sang-woo with his mother.Sang-woo look at the screen when he played Ddakji with The Recruiter.Sang-woo playing Ddakji with The Recruiter.Ditto, but in GIF.Sang-woo after entering the Red Light, Green Light arena.Ditto.Cho Sang-woo after the Red Light, Green Light panic.Sang-woo warning Gi-hun that the doll detects moving players.Sang-woo hiding behind Player 074.Ditto, staring at Gi-hun.Sang-woo running during Red Light, Green Light game.Cho Sang-woo running towards the finish line in Red Light, Green Light.Ditto.Sang-woo about to cross the finish line.Sang-woo past the finish line.Sang-woo tired after crossing the finish line.Sang-woo staring at Gi-hun.Ditto.Ditto.Ditto.Sang-woo after Gi-hun and Ali cross the finish line.Sang-woo after the first game ends.Sang-woo standing up to the guards informing about Clause 3.Sang-woo voting for the games to continue.Sang-woo’s suicide attempt before offered after chance to play in Squid Game.Sang-woo on the van back to Squid Game.Sang-woo before the Sugar Honeycombs.Sang-woo asks Sae-byeok about the next game.Sang-woo receives his dalgona.Sang-woo looking at Gi-hun after players got their dalgona.Sang-woo carving his Dalgona.Ditto.Ditto (2).Sang-woo getting announced pass in BTS.Sang-woo after passing.Sang-woo looking at Gi-hun.Sang-woo leaving Sugar Honeycombs after passing.Sang-woo walking back to the dormitory.Ditto.Sang-woo in the Dormitory after Sugar Honeycombs.Cho Sang-woo watching Deok-su beat Player 271 to death.Cho Sang-woo after checking Player 271's pulse.Sang-woo informing Gi-hun that Player 271 is dead.Sang-woo as the guards bring in a coffin for Player 271.Sang-woo discussing with his team.Ditto.Ditto.Sang-woo heading to bed.Ditto.Sang-woo as the timer for lights to go off is about to end.Sang-woo hitting Player 413.Sang-woo holding Gi-hun.Ditto.Sang-woo hitting Player 113.Sang-woo and Ali throwing Player 113 off.Sang-woo looking for Oh Il-nam.Ditto.Sang-woo at Oh Il-nam's bed.Sang-woo hitting Player 303.Sang-woo hits Player 303 three times with metal pipe to defend Sae-byeok but gets kicked in stomach by Player 040.Sang-woo and his allies together.Seong Gi-hun's team.Sang-woo looks at Player 244 praying.Mi-nyeo's failed proposal to team up with Sang-woo in the Marbles game.Sang-woo pushed Jung-soo in last wrong glass tile during Glass Stepping Stones to his death.Sang-woo climbing down the stairs after passing Glass Bridge.Sang-woo back in the dormitory.Sang-woo and Gi-hun having a heated conversation after the Glass Stepping Stones.Sang-woo listening to the guards.Sang-woo as a finalist.DittoSang-woo standing near Sae-Byeok's corpseSang-woo before the Squid game.Gi-hun and Sang-woo starting to fight in the Squid game.Sang-woo almost gets stabbed by Gi-hun during Squid Game.


Season 2
Sang-woo's head shown in Gi-hun's dream in "Bread and Lottery".Ditto.
Promotional
Cho Sang-woo's promotional icon.
Behind the scenes
Sang-woo in the dorm in a BTS image.Sang-woo carving his Dalgona in a BTS image.Lim Tae-hoon stunt doubling Cho Sang-woo.Ditto.
References

↑ Under the traditional Korean age system in effect at the time, a year is added to a person's age after birth, meaning he would've been born circa 1975, if he was 46 years old in 2020.

↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 "Stick to the Team"

↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 "A Fair World"

↑ 4.0 4.1 "Hell"

↑ The Squid Game Cast React To Their Own Show | Netflix

↑ Squid Game: Hwang Dong-hyuk and Bong Joon-ho in Conversation | Netflix

↑ "Red Light, Green Light"

↑ "Gganbu"

↑ 9.0 9.1 Netflix’s ‘Squid Game’ Cast and Director Talk About Bringing the Korean Survival Show to Life

↑ 10.0 10.1 Lee Jung Jae And Park Hae Soo Are Two Sides Of The Same Coin In “Squid Game”

↑ Squid Game Cast Review the Biggest Betrayals in Season One | Vanity Fair

↑ "The Man with the Umbrella"

↑ "VIPS"

↑ "Front Man"

↑ "One Lucky Day"

↑ Squid Game: Keyword Interview with Lee Jung-jae

Season One33rd Squid GameMain Characters
001
067
101
199
212
218
456
Major Characters
017
040
111
196
240
244
276
278
303
Supporting Characters
021
062
066
069
070
073
074
096
107
118
119
151
194
198
209
245
250
271
274
306
308
322
324
360
369
407
453
Minor Characters
002
003
004
005
006
009
014
019
024
025
026
028
032
039
043
061
063
068
075
077
078
080
081
083
085
090
112
113
114
115
120
122
123
128
130
133
134
153
154
187
202
204
211
220
224
229
305
309
328
331
357
362
400
413
455
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Workers
Number 028
Number 029
Leadership
The Host
Front Man
Others
The VIPs
Waiters
Human furniture
The Salesman
Young-hee
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Oh Mal-soon
Kang Eun-ji
Seong Ga-yeong
Seong Ga-yeong's stepfather
Seong Ga-yeong's stepbrother
Cho Sang-woo
Mother
Kang Sae-byeok
MotherM
Kang Cheol
Ali Abdul
Wife
Son
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Kim Sang-hyuk
Kim Jin-woo
Criminals
Loan shark
Gang member
Others
Seong Gi-hun's friend
Seong Gi-hun's friend's wife
Banker
Broker
Doctor
Dormitory owner
Factory owner
Teller