Title: Choi Hyuk
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Choi_Hyuk
--------------------------------------------------
Choi Hyuk






Name
Choi Hyuk


Aliases
Number 008Soldier 008


Family
Park In-hwa † (ex-wife)Choi Yeon-su (daughter)Kim Se-eun (wife)


Relationships
Cho Hyun-ju † (enemy, killer)


Affiliation
Republic of Korea Armed Forces (formerly)Squid GamesPink Guards


Occupation
Army soldier (formerly)Administration service employee (formerly)Restaurant ownerSquid Game soldier


Born
February 14, 1976 (age 48)Uijeongbu-si, Gyeonggi-do


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
November 4, 2024[1]Stairs, Rebellion


Cause of death
Shot in the chest with a MP5 submachine gun by Cho Hyun-ju



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Brown


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Choi Min-hyuk





First appearance
Last appearance




"001"
"Humans Are..." (pictured)






Choi Hyuk (최혁 Choe Hyeog?), also known as Number 008, is a soldier during the 37th Squid Game.

Contents

1 History

1.1 Background
1.2 Fate


2 Trivia
3 Behind the scenes
4 Appearances
5 Gallery
6 References


History[]
Background[]
Choi Hyuk was born in 1976. As an adult, he married a woman named Kim Se-eun. With her, he had a daughter named Choi Yeon-su. He joined the Squid Games as a staff member in 2016, the year the 29th Squid Games would've taken place. He joined the military in June 2016 through a special program after a friend recommended him. He finished training in July and joined his unit in October. In December 2021, he did more work in administrative service. His Ex-wife, In-hwa, would die in an unfortunate accident around 2018-2022. Sometime during his adulthood, he would start a restaurant and is still running it today.
In 2024, Hyuk met in a trailer in the Tancheon parking lot in the early morning of November 1, and changed into his soldier uniform before being transported to The Island for the 37th Squid Game.

Fate[]
During the Rebellion, Hyuk would shoot at the players. Sometime later, he was fatally shot by Cho Hyun-ju. His guard file would later be shown when Kang No-eul flips through the soldier files for the 37th Squid Game.
His place as Soldier 008 was taken by a worker, on behalf of the Front Man's orders.

Trivia[]
According to his personnel file, Choi Hyuk lives somewhere in Gyeonggi Province. The city he lives in is either Gwangju, Paju, Yangju, or Yeoju, assuming it's not a fictional location.
His file also states his blood type is B.
Choi Hyuk has only a single character in his first name, a trait only shared by one other character in the show, Kang Cheol.
Behind the scenes[]
Choi Hyuk was portrayed by Choi Min-hyuk.

Appearances[]
Season Two
"001"
"Six Legs"
"One More Game"
"O X"
"Friend or Foe"
Season Three
"Humans Are..." (pictured)
Gallery[]
Choi Hyuk's file.Choi Hyuk being shot to death by Cho Hyun-ju.Choi Hyuk's corpse.Choi Hyuk in BTS image.Choi Hyuk's replacement, after the rebellion.Him by his locker.
References[]

↑ Since the 37th Squid Game began directly after Seong Gi-hun met with the Front Man on October 31, the Special Game and ensuing revolt occurred on either November 3 or November 4, as the drone pilot was stated to have "disappeared" at around three in the morning, which occurred before the fight itself, although a manager stated it was on the previous night when announcing the results of the Special Game and revolt. The revolt occurred directly after this.