Title: Choi Seung-jae
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Choi_Seung-jae
--------------------------------------------------
Choi Seung-jae






Name
Choi Seung-jae


Aliases
Player 334 (33rd Squid Game)


Family
Kang Young-sook (wife)Choi Min-ji (daughter)


Relationships
Player 064 † (friend)Player 098 † (friend)Player 399 † (friend)Player 100 † (friend)


Affiliation
Squid Games33rd Squid Game


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
June 26, 2020[1]Sugar Honeycombs


Cause of death
Shot repeatedly by the soldiers after failed to cut his star dalgona in time



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Brown


Hair color
Black (graying)



Appearances

Portrayed by
Shin Jae-chulSong Dae-okLee Soo-gil4 unknown extras





First appearance
Last appearance




"Red Light, Green Light"
"Stick to the Team" (error)






Voting




Round 1











Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 333
Player 335







Choi Seung-jae (최승재 Choe Seung-jae?), also known as Player 334 was a participant in the 33rd Squid Game.

Contents

1 History

1.1 Fate


2 Trivia

2.1 Mistakes


3 Behind the scenes
4 Appearances
5 Gallery

5.1 Shin Jae-chul (Canon)
5.2 Unknown extra (Red Light, Green Light)
5.3 Unknown extra (Returning)
5.4 Unknown extra (Returning)
5.5 Unknown extra (Stairs)
5.6 Song Dae-ok (after Sugar Honeycombs)
5.7 Player 327's actor (File)


6 References


History[]
Player 334 was in heavy debt and chose to enter the Squid Games to win money. After waking up in a large room with 455 other players, he signed a contract and took his photo. He then entered the 1st Game area. He managed to survive the the first game. After the game, a vote was held and the majority voted to leave. However, those who were willing to return could, and he returned along with 186 other players.  

Fate[]
In Sugar Honeycombs, he choose star. He couldn't cut his dalgona in time, causing him to be shot repeatedly by the soldiers. 

Trivia[]
In "The Man with the Umbrella", a partial player file with his portrait appears. The only discernible part of the player history are the words "한일". This possibly means that he is biracial, born between Korean and Japanese parents, because the word for Korean-Japanese mixed blood in Korean is "한일 혼혈".
He most likely got fired from his job due to negligence or carelessness, as seen in the special notes section of his file.
Mistakes[]
Another Player 334 is seen running out of time in Red Light, Green Light, this was likely a continuity error because his file is shown in the scene where the workers check the players. But players' file is only shown when a worker uses a scanner to scan the players. That means he must survive Red Light, Green Light so they can scan him.
His icon is the same as Player 245's faulty icon.
His file icon is shared with Player 201's, Player 252's and Player 327's faulty grid icons.
Another Player 334 is seen before the Special Game.
Behind the scenes[]
Choi Seung-jae was portrayed by Shin Jae-chul, Song Dae-ok, Lee Soo-gil and 4 unknown extras.

Appearances[]
Season One
"Red Light, Green Light"
"Hell"
"The Man with the Umbrella"
"Stick to the Team" (error)
Gallery[]
Shin Jae-chul (Canon)[]
Seung-jae in the lobby.Ditto.Ditto but in a BTS image.Ditto.Seung-Jae looking at the piggy bank in a promotional imageSeung-jae waiting to sign the consent form in BTS.Seung-jae watches Gi-hun voteSeung-jae looking at Gi-hun in BTSChoi Seung-jae during the voting.Ditto.Seung-jae returning.Seung-jae during Sugar Honeycombs.Seung-jae as the guards explain the second game.Seung-jae thinking if to chose the star or not.Seung-jae deciding to pick the star and going over to it.Seung-jae waiting in lineSeung-jae getting his dalgona.Seung-jae getting scared as Park Ju-un gets shot.Seung-jae trying to escape the soldiers when he ran out of time.Choi Seung-jae's icon.Choi Seung-jae's disappeared icon during the Fly Me to the Moon scene in Red Light, Green Light. (error)Choi Seung-jae's icon in a poster.
Unknown extra (Red Light, Green Light)[]
Another Player 334 in Red Light, Green Light.The other Player 334 running to the finish line after the panic.The other Player 334 during Red Light, Green Light.The other Player 236 and another Player 334 ran out of time. (error)The other Player 236's and Another Player 334's corpse. (error)The other player 334 running out of time. (error)
Unknown extra (Returning)[]
Another Player 334 returned to the Games.
Unknown extra (Returning)[]
Yet again another Player 334 getting dressed in the same scene aas the first one.
Unknown extra (Stairs)[]
Another Player 334 walking to Red Light, Green Light.The other Player 334 going up the stairs after taking his photo.The other Player 334 after passing Sugar Honeycombs. (error)
Song Dae-ok (after Sugar Honeycombs)[]
Another Player 334 waiting in line for food before the Special Game. (error)Ditto. (error)Another Player 334 watching Deok-su kill Player 271. (error)
Player 327's actor (File)[]
Choi Seung-jae's Partial file.Choi Seung-jae's file.Ditto.Choi Seung-jae's file. (brightened)
References[]

↑ Assuming the remaining games all occurred on consecutive days after the Squid Games resumed, Sugar Honeycombs most likely took place on June 26, with the final game happening on June 30.