Title: Circle Triangle Square
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Circle_Triangle_Square
--------------------------------------------------
Season Three


Keys and Knives

The Starry Night

It's Not Your Fault

222

⭘△☐

Humans Are...




⭘△☐





							Title
							
						



							Episode
							
						






















Season
Episode
Overall




3
5
21





Episode Information

Duration
62 minutes


Air Date
June 27, 2025


Writer
Hwang Dong-hyuk


Director
Hwang Dong-hyuk




Episode Guide


Previous
Next




"222"
"Humans Are..."






Go on. Do it if you can. Keep in mind, you could be the one they choose in the next round. I can see them now behind you, plotting what to do next.
Seong Gi-hun warning Kim Yun-tae about what will happen if he kills him and Kim Jun-hee's baby 
⭘△☐ (Circle, Triangle, Square) is the 5th episode in Season 3 of the Netflix TV series Squid Game. It is the 21st episode and penultimate of the series overall.

Contents

1 Synopsis
2 Plot
3 Starring

3.1 Main
3.2 Recurring actors
3.3 Special Guest Cast
3.4 Files


4 Deaths
5 Trivia
6 References


Synopsis[]
No-eul tries to gain upper hand in negotiations, but her plans backfire. Gi-hun faces moral crossroads, testing his limits — how far will he go?

—Official Netflix synopsis
Plot[]
Kang No-eul climbs a rock mountain to a giant vent, she shoots the fan with her MP5 to disable it and enters the island's interior facilities through the vent. On the X Side of the Dormitory, Seong Gi-hun watches the baby sleep and smiles when he sees her sleeping peacefully. Gi-hun turns to look at the O Side and sees the other Finalists sleeping. Then, Gi-hun walks towards the O Side with Oh Il-nam's dagger in his hand while Hwang In-ho, with a sip of liquor in his hand, watches Gi-hun approach Im Jeong-dae.
Gi-hun looks at Jeong-dae with a look of hatred and puts the dagger near the detestable old man's neck, but Player 456 struggles to decide whether to let Player 100 live or kill him. In-ho starts to have memories of the 28th Squid Games and remembers that in 2015, Oh Il-nam (The Host) offered In-ho (Player 132) the dagger to kill the other Finalists. Il-nam told In-ho to take the dagger and kill the others since they knew that everyone would try to kill Player 132 in the last game; therefore, the Host told him to kill them first and that it was his best option to survive. In-ho seemed emotionally altered by the idea of killing, but he ended up accepting Il-nam's proposition and took the dagger. Gi-hun, with trembling hands, put the dagger on Jeong-dae's neck, the blade of the razor touched his throat and was about to pierce the skin, flesh and blood vessels of the remorseless, greedy, pyschotic and evil old man, but Gi-hun still couldn't say without leaving Jeong-dae alive or dead.
In-ho decided to kill the other Finalists with the dagger and stabbed them all to death, though he was disturbed by killing those who wanted to kill him. In-ho, covered in blood, trembling and being altered, stabbed Player ?53 in the neck with the dagger while he stared at him in terror. Player ?53 woke up after being stabbed in the throat, looked at In-ho with a face of pain and impact without being able to say a word and In-ho stabbed him in the chest to death; killing him. After killing Player ?53, In-ho stepped away from his corpse while trembling, breathing heavily and being in shock for having killed the other Finalists. But Gi-hun cannot bring himself to kill a defenseless, sleeping person as he is haunted by the memory of Kang Sae-byeok, who urges him in his thoughts not to be one of “them”. 
No-eul penetrates deeper into the facility through the ventilation shafts, while Gyeong-seok continues to evade his pursuers on the motorboat and Jun-ho continues his search for the island. At that moment, In-ho contacts him by radio. He threatens that this time he will die if he doesn't give up. Jun-ho replies that he'll have to do that himself, whereupon In-ho breaks off contact.
No-eul climbs into the masked officer's quarters and demands at gunpoint that he delete all entries for player number 246 (Gyeong-seok) from the server. He does so, but points out that there is another entry in the leader's private quarters, which she can only access with him. In the elevator on the way there, the Officer tries to overpower No-eul, which he almost succeeds in doing. He asks her why she is doing this. She explains that she is doing it for Gyeong-seok's daughter. It becomes clear that he also comes from North Korea and lost someone important to him there because he couldn't find a kidney for him, which apparently explains his reasons for engaging in organ trafficking. After he seriously injures No-eul, she manages to shoot him dead. She then searches for and finds the written records of the games. Gyeong-seok is meanwhile cornered by his pursuers, but Jun-ho and his teamster manage to take them out at the last second.
Meanwhile, the remaining players are led into the final arena. They ride an elevator up into hollow towers shaped like a square, a triangle, and a circle. The announcer explains that the final game is called “Sky Squid Game.” The three towers are played one after the other. In each round, the players must push at least one of the other players off the respective platforms while keeping them alive. Now all the other players except Min-su and Myung-gi slowly move towards Gi-hun and the baby. Min-su has a vision of Thanos clinging to the square tower with his last ounce of strength and shouting that he will miss him.
Now the players, with the participation of Myung-gi, discuss how to proceed. Player 353 suggests that one of the players should nominate another player to be pushed off the tower. Then a vote should be taken on this player. If the majority votes for the nominee, the player should be executed. Everyone who voted 0 in the sixth vote plus Player 039 agree to this. Player 039 suggests the baby. He justifies this by saying that the baby was not actually made a substitute for player 222 in accordance with the rules. Player 353 agrees and points out that it is not in a position to participate in the votes or games. Player 203 says that the child would have no chance of surviving after the games without its mother anyway. As Player 100 is about to announce that it has been decided to disqualify the child, Myung-gi objects that Gi-hun will protect the child. Player 353 agrees with him, pointing out that only one player can be eliminated per round if the six conspirators want to survive in the end. Myung-gi then suggests disqualifying Min-su instead, who is a drug addict and suffers from withdrawal symptoms. Player 100 calls for a vote, all six vote for his death and approach him. But they cannot decide who should push him down. Player 100 asks Player 203 to do it, but he is afraid of being pulled down himself. Myung-gi grabs an iron bar attached to the middle of the tower. He uses it to push Min-su off as he has a vision of Se-mi urging him to come with her.
A bridge to the next tower is extended, and the remaining players make their way to the triangle. Player 336 nominates the baby again. No one objects, so Player 100 declares that the decision has been made democratically. The other players put up an unconvincing feigned pretense of wanting to kill the baby now to spare her a difficult upbringing. Player 353 says he won't ask Gi-hun to kill the child himself, just to tie it to the pole. But he also threatens to push them both down if he doesn't get the child. Gi-hun then asks who they would throw down in the third round. Player 203 tells Player 353 to throw them both down. Gi-hun predicts that he will be next, so he doesn't do it, and they get into an argument. Myung-gi suggests playing rock-paper-scissors. Player 336 is chosen to separate Gi-hun from the child. To prevent Gi-hun from pulling any of them down with him, the others form a chain with their jackets. Player 336 suggests drawing lots. Gi-hun tells them to bring him the lots, which are of course rigged. Player 336 then attacks him to separate him from the child. But Gi-hun separates him from the others with the knife In-ho gave him. Myung-gi then pushes Player 336 off. At the same time, he reveals himself as the child's father. Now the remaining players want to draw lots again, but Myung-gi doesn't trust the others. He tries to convince Gi-hun to join forces with him. Meanwhile, the others attack Player 039. Player 100 calls out to Gi-hun and Myung-gi that they want to beat Player 039 half to death and then carry him to the circle to push him off so that all the others can survive. But now Gi-hun wants to draw lots. “Fair and square, without the baby.” Fighting breaks out again, and in self-defense, Gi-hun kills Player 203, while Myung-gi also pushes Player 353 down in self-defense. Then he turns to Jeong-dae (player 100) and pushes him down as well. Player 039 throws himself off because he doesn't want to be killed in the last round. This leaves Myung-gi, Gi-hun, and the baby before the final round.

Starring[]
Main[]
Lee Jung-jae as Seong Gi-hun (Player 456)
Lee Byung-hun as The Front Man/Hwang In-ho (Player 132 in the 28th Squid Game flashback)
Wi Ha-joon as Hwang Jun-ho
Yim Si-wan as Lee Myung-gi (Player 333)
Park Gyu-young as Kang No-eul (Guard 011)
Jo Yu-ri as Kim Jun-hee (Player 222) (flashback)
Roh Jae-won as Nam-gyu (Player 124) (hallucination)
Jeon Seok-ho as Choi Woo-seok
Lee David as Park Min-su (Player 125)
Song Young-chang as Im Jeong-dae (Player 100)
Lee Jin-wook as Park Gyeong-seok (Player 246/Soldier 016)
Recurring actors[]
Park Hee-soon as the Masked Officer
Choi Jae-hwan as Kim Mu-dong
Choi Gwi-hwa as Kim Gi-min (Player 203)
Park Jin-woo as Lee Seung-won (Player 336)
Woo Jung-kook as Player 039
Lee Kyu-hoi as Kim Yun-tae (player 353)
Special Guest Cast[]
Jung Ho-yeon as Kang Sae-byeok (Player 067) (vision)
O Yeong-su as Oh Il-nam (flashback)
T.O.P as Choi Su-bong "Thanos" (Player 230) (hallucination)
Won Ji-an as Se-mi (Player 380) (hallucination)
Files[]
Player 205
Player 220
Kim Su-ho (Player 227)
Choi Su-bong (Player 230)
Park Jae-cheol (Player 235)
Choi Woong-seok (Player 236)
Player 241
Player 242
Player 243
Player 244
Player 245
An Dong-uk (Player 247)
Player 248
Player 249
Kim Yong-su (Player 250)
Player 251
Player 252
Player 253
Player 254
Player 255
Gyeong-su (Player 256)
Player 257
Player 258
Player 259
Player 260
Player 261
Player 262
Player 263
Player 264
Player 265
Player 266
Player 267
Player 268
Player 269
Player 270
Player 271
Player 272
Player 273
Player 274
Player 275
Player 276
Player 277
Player 278
Player 279
Player 280
Player 281
Player 282
Lee Eun-ju (Player 283)
Player 284
Player 285
Player 286
Player 287
Player 288
Player 289
Deaths[]
Player ??9 (Stabbed repeatedly by Hwang In-ho)
Player ??? (Stabbed repeatedly by Hwang In-ho)
Player ??? (Stabbed repeatedly by Hwang In-ho)
Player 3?? (Stabbed repeatedly by Hwang In-ho)
Player ?53 (Stabbed repeatedly in chest with dagger by Hwang In-ho)
Masked Officer (Shot repeatedly with a MP5 by Kang No-eul)
Park Min-su (Pushed off square pillar by Lee Myung-gi with the help of metal pole and fell down to his death)
1 Unnamed soldier (Shot and killed by Park Gyeong-seok)
Oh Su-kyung (Shot by Hwang Jun-ho and Kim)
Manager 004 (Shot in shoulder and chest by Hwang Jun-ho and Kim)
Lee Seung-won (Pushed off triangle pillar by Lee Myung-gi with a metal pole and fell to his death)
Kim Yun-tae (Got kicked by Lee Myung-gi and fell from a great height)
Kim Gi-min (Stabbed in the chest by Seong Gi-hun)
Im Jeong-dae (Pushed off triangle pillar by Lee Myung-gi with pole and fell to death)
Player 039 (Committed suicide by falling off triangle pillar)
Trivia[]
This episode features the game Sky Squid Game.
This is the only episode with shapes in the episode’s title.
Woo-seok does not appear in this episode due to him being in prison.
Player ?53 is the first death in this episode.
References[]
Squid GameSeason 1
Red Light, Green Light
Hell
The Man with the Umbrella
Stick to the Team
A Fair World
Gganbu
VIPS
Front Man
One Lucky Day
Season 2
Bread and Lottery
Halloween Party
001
Six Legs
One More Game
O X
Friend or Foe
Season 3
Keys and Knives
The Starry Night
It's Not Your Fault
222
⭘△☐
Humans Are...