Title: Co-worker
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Co-worker
--------------------------------------------------
Seong Gi-hun's coworker






Name
Unknown


Relationships
Seong Gi-hun † (colleague)Park Jung-bae † (colleague)


Affiliation
Dragon Motors


Occupation
Car manufacturer employee


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
June 8, 2011Dragon Motors


Cause of death
Struck in the head with a Baton by the Police



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Black


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Han Jae-hyuk





First appearance
Last appearance




"Hell" (mentioned)
"A Fair World" (visions)








Gi-hun.
Co-worker's last words to Seong Gi-hun in "A Fair World"
This unnamed man was an employee who worked at a car factory run by Dragon Motors. He was a colleague of Seong Gi-hun who participated in a strike with them. He appears in a hallucination in "A Fair World".

Contents

1 History

1.1 Fate
1.2 Legacy


2 Appearances
3 Gallery


History[]
Although almost nothing is very much known about the coworker, except for the fact that he worked at Dragon Motors alongside Seong Gi-hun and Park Jung-bae. 
He participated in a strike, along with Gi-hun, Jung-bae, and many other workers when the company abruptly laid them off all at once. He and his coworkers occupied the factory where they worked for multiple days, and the strike made it into the national news.

Fate[]
The coworker died when he was beaten to death after the police raided Dragon Motors to break up the strike. His death was apparently witnessed by Seong Gi-hun.

Legacy[]
Gi-hun, who resigned from the company in the aftermath of the strike, was left with lasting trauma from witnessing his coworker's death. He was first mentioned in "Hell", when Gi-hun was arguing with his ex-wife about him not coming to witnessing his child's birth, as she was already in labor during at the time of the strike and his coworker was killed in front of Gi-hun.
While guarding his team during the 33rd Squid Game, Gi-hun relived the experience of witnessing his coworker's death during the strike in a waking dream. He told Oh Il-nam about him after he snapped him out of it.

Appearances[]
Season One
"Hell" (mentioned)
"A Fair World" (visions)
Gallery[]
Gi-hun's Co-worker before his death.Co-worker death.