Title: Cross necklace
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Cross_necklace
--------------------------------------------------
Cross necklace






Name
Thanos' necklace


Aliases
The cross (By Nam Gyu)


Relationships
Thanos † (original owner)Nam-gyu † (former owner)Park Min-su † (former owner)


Fate

Status
Destroyed


Cause of death
The Island exploding or a Worker put it in Nam-gyu's coffin and it got melted in the incinerator



Appearances




First appearance
Last appearance




"001"
"⭘△☐" (hallucination)







It's a new kind. It's fucking crazy, man. You can't handle it.
Thanos to Nam-gyu in "Six Legs"The cross necklace was the cross Thanos wore throughout the games. It was used to store the drugs that he, Nam-gyu and eventually Park Min-su used to fuel their actions. The cross first appeared in 001 after Kang Mi-na was eliminated. Thanos took a pill to calm himself and escape the world of the games.
Contents

1 Six Legs
2 One More Game
3 Friend or Foe
4 Keys and Knives
5 The Starry Night
6 It's Not Your Fault
7 222
8 ⭘△☐
9 Fate


Six Legs[]
The cross is used before the Six-Legged Pentathlon when Nam-gyu asks Thanos what he has. Thanos ignores him and walks towards the game hall. After Player 254's team and Jang Do-yeong's team were shot, Nam-gyu asks Thanos if he can have a pill as he is nervous and the team will die if he doesn't complete his task.

One More Game[]
The cross only appears towards the end of the episode when Nam-gyu asks Thanos for another pill. Se-mi tells Min-su to not use the drug, which he did later on anyway.

Friend or Foe[]
During the Bathroom fight, the cross is seen on the floor next to Thanos' corpse. After Nam-gyu is knocked to the floor by Player 331, he takes the fork from Thanos' neck and uses it to kill Player 331. The cross is not seen again until before the Special Game when Nam-gyu takes another pill to prepare for the night.

Keys and Knives[]
The first sight of the cross in Season 3 was when Min-su, lining up for food, stares at Nam-gyu, sitting in his bed taking another pill. While the Seekers waited for it to be their turn to be released, Nam-gyu spoke to Min-su about Se-mi's death and shows him the cross.

The Starry Night[]
The cross appears at the start of the episode when Nam-gyu takes a pill before going to look for Hiders. Lee Myung-gi asks what the things Nam-gyu had were. Nam-gyu explains that the pill is a type of powerup for his courage and stamina. He then offers a pill to Myung-gi. When Myung-gi declines, he takes another pill and goes to look for hiders. When Nam-gyu and Myung-gi were killing Park Jae-cheol, Nam-gyu dropped the cross and didn't realise. Park Min-su stumbles upon Jae-cheol's corpse and picks up the cross. He then takes a pill, leaving 1 pill left in the cross. While under the influence of the drug, Min-su kills Seon-nyeo, who had just been betrayed by Im Jeong-dae, hallucinating that it was Nam-gyu. As Seon-nyeo is bleeding out, Min-su hallucinates that he had just killed Se-mi.

It's Not Your Fault[]
In the Dormitory after Hide and Seek, Nam-gyu asks Myung-gi if he had seen his necklace. When Myung-gi says he hasn't seen it, Nam-gyu runs to the door and says to the guard that he has to go retrieve something in the maze. After being denied access to the arena, Min-su looks at the cross in his hands. During Jump Rope, Nam-gyu breaks down due to withdrawal. Min-su takes the last pill out the cross and taunts Nam-gyu. Nam-gyu begs Min-su saying he can't do it without it and Min-su throws the necklace on the bridge. Nam-gyu becomes the first player to go on the bridge in an attempt to get the drugs. When Nam-gyu does retrieve the cross, he realises that the cross is empty. The shock makes him forget about the rope and he, along with the cross, fall off of the bridge once Nam-gyu realises there were no more pills inside of it. The cross is then seen on the floor next to Nam-gyu's corpse, just out of reach of his hands.

222[]
The only appearance the cross has in this episode is the scene showing a few of the corpse's from the Jump Rope game. The cross is still next to Nam-gyu's corpse in the background behind Player 442's corpse. This is the cross' last physical appearance.

⭘△☐[]
During Sky Squid Game, Park Min-su hallucinates Thanos hanging on from the square pillar. Min-su is lured over and Thanos says he has more pills for him.

Fate[]
There are two ways the cross could of been destroyed. After Jump Rope, when Nam-gyu was put in a coffin, it is possible that a guard put the cross in his coffin or another coffin from a nearby deceased player. The cross would have then been melted in the incinerator.
The other way is that if a guard didn't put the cross in a coffin and left it on the floor, it would have been melted by the self destruction of the island.