Title: Dae-ho
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Dae-ho
--------------------------------------------------
Kang Dae-ho






Name
Kang Dae-ho


Aliases
Player 388 (37th Squid Game)


Family
Unnamed parentsFour unnamed sisters


Relationships
AlliesPark Jung-bae † (close friend)Kim Jun-hee † (friend; distanced after the Revolt)Hwang In-ho (close friend, disguised enemy)Cho Hyun-ju † (ally, leader in the Revolt)Park Gyeong-seok (ally in the Revolt)Kim Young-mi † (ally in Mingle)Jang Geum-ja † (ally)Park Yong-sik † (ally)Kwon Byeong-su † (ally)Player 145 † (ally)NeutralSeon-nyeo † (ally in Mingle)Player 072 † (ally in the Revolt)Player 206 † (ally in the Revolt)Player 324 † (ally in the Revolt)Player 015 † (ally in the Revolt)Player 349 † (attempted ally)EnemiesSeong Gi-hun † (close friend turned enemy; killer)Kim Yeong-sam † (enemy)Kim Gi-min † (enemy)Player 359 † (attempted killer)


Affiliation
Republic of Korea Marine Corps (cover story)Social Service PersonnelSquid Games37th Squid GameTeam O (formerly)Team XSeong Gi-hun's team (formerly)Revolt teamHiders


Occupation
Social Service personnel


Born
1987 (37 years old)


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
November 5, 2024[1]Hide and Seek


Cause of death
Strangled to death by Seong Gi-hun



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Black


Hair color
Dark Brown



Appearances

Portrayed by
Kang Ha-neulPark Jong-nam (gonggi scene)





First appearance
Last appearance




"001" (icon)
"It's Not Your Fault" (corpse)







Voting




Round 1
Round 2
Round 3















Round 3 Tie











God damnit! Will you quit looking at me like that?! This is not my fault! Listen, we should've gone after to those bastards who hit the "O" button, then we would've had a chance. We could've won the fight. We could've won the vote! This is your fault. You and your ridiculous plan, that's why everybody else is dead. This is all your fault! You're the one who got them all killed!
Kang Dae-ho snapping at Gi-hun in "Keys and Knives"

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 387
Player 389







Kang Dae-ho (강대호 Gang Dae-ho?), also known as Player 388, was a participant in the 37th Squid Game. An early adherent of Seong Gi-hun, he formed a close friendship with Park Jung-bae, a former marine who believed Dae-ho had served in the military as well. 

Contents

1 Personality
2 History

2.1 Background
2.2 2024
2.3 Fate


3 Kill count
4 Trivia

4.1 Mistakes


5 Behind the scenes
6 Appearances
7 Gallery

7.1 Season 2
7.2 Season 3
7.3 Promotional
7.4 Behind the scenes/Stunt Double (Lee Tae-young)


8 References


Personality[]
And I feel the same way. Sir, let me play with you three. If we work together, then nothing can stand in our way.
Kang Dae-ho to Seong Gi-hun's team in "Six Legs"Dae-ho was a respectful young man. He showed great discipline, however he lied about serving in the Marines, rather he served as a Social Services Personnel.  
Dae-ho is shown to have a strong moral compass. Upon Gi-hun informing them the 2nd game he played in the past was Dalgona, Dae-ho suggested they all pick the triangle. He also planned to switch to X immediately after the 2nd round and actually kept his word on doing so. This was despite of the fact the prize money not being enough to cover his debt, being the only X player to do so other than Lee Myung-gi. When Myung-gi was being jumped by Thanos and Nam-gyu, he agreed with Jung-bae they should intervene before the former get seriously injured and later in the bathroom, he offered to protect Myung-gi alongside the rest of his team if he was bullied again. During Mingle, Dae-ho, alongside Jun-hee, defends Myung-gi when Cho Hyun-ju blames him for Kim Young-mi's death, agreeing that he saved their lives and there wasn't enough time to save her.   
Despite initially being a well-intentioned member of Gi-hun’s team, Dae-ho’s cowardice and fear ultimately gets the better of him. During the Revolt, Dae-ho becomes scared and abandons his task upon seeing a corpse. Dae-ho only began to crack from the pressure and his lack of military combat experience when the shootout fully unfolded and after witnessing Player 072 being killed right in front of him. It is subtly implied that Dae-ho's father was abusive, as he mentions that his father disapproved of his interests that his four sisters instilled in him. Furthermore, when Dae-ho is suffering a trauma episode and fearfully hides in the dorms, Hyun-ju approaches him to retrieve the magazines he was sent for, but he reflexively flinches when Hyun-ju simply raises her hand, apparently anticipating her to hit him, which may imply childhood abuse he suffered from his father that still affects him decades later. 
Dae-ho’s true personality is revealed to be that of a coward who refuses to take accountability for his actions. Consumed by guilt, denial of his own cowardice, self-preservation, and fear of Gi-hun, he isolates himself from the rest of the group as the games continue. Prior to the Hide-and-Seek game, he confronts Gi-hun, who’s been silently glaring at him, and attempts to provoke him while verbally chastising him and firmly denying any responsibility for his inaction during the revolt. In doing so, Dae-ho deflects all blame and refuses to acknowledge any personal fault. During the Hide-and-Seek game, his fear fully takes over as he spends the entire ordeal in a constant state of flight, focused solely on evading Gi-hun and preserving his own life rather than facing the consequences of his actions. Even as events close in on him, he clings to his narrative, repeatedly shifting all blame onto Gi-hun and insisting until his death that every casualty from the uprising was solely Gi-hun’s fault.

History[]
Background[]
Dae-ho grew up around four older sisters and spent most of his time playing games with them, leading to him being an expert in things considered feminine by societal standards. Sometime later, Dae-ho is forced by his father to join the military service to prove that he was masculine enough, which did not happen because Dae-ho was chosen as a Social Services Personnel, implying that he was not considered mentally fit to go to the regular Military service. Eventually, he receives a Marine tattoo, in spite of never having been one. 
Dae-ho had accumulated ₩630 million in debt and decided to enter the Squid Game.

2024[]
Off-screen, Dae-ho successfully completed Red Light, Green Light. Later, his player number is called, but Player 389 walks up to vote. He votes to continue the games off-screen.
Dae-ho first appears in "Six Legs". He proclaims to have become a 'fan' of Seong Gi-hun after he saved everyone during the game by expressing his knowledge about the games. He and Gi-hun's old friend, Park Jung-bae, discover that they were both in the marines (though, Dae-ho lied for his own protection), something to which Dae-ho reacts to by addressing Jung-bae as 'sir' and acting like a soldier. 
When the second game is not Dalgona, as Gi-hun has predicted, but in fact Six Legs, Dae-ho is one of the only contestants to stick by him. He finds a former marine to be their teams' final member, but they are interrupted by Kim Jun-hee who asks for their help, as she is pregnant. She joins their team instead and is asked to play gonggi due to it being a game associated with women, but Dae-ho volunteers, hurriedly stating he only knows how to play because he has sisters. As they wait for their turn, Dae-ho is told by the others to practice the flip and other moves. When they reach the Gonggi, Dae-ho perfectly does the entire sequence, shocking everyone. Their team barely manages to pass.
For the next vote, Dae-ho switches to "X" to end the games, but admits he almost voted "O". Jung-bae votes "O", and Dae-ho convinces him to re-join the group despite his shame, although he becomes uncomfortable at Jung-bae's reaction to his revelation he almost voted "O". Their team all begin to discuss their lives, but when Jung-bae begins asking about Dae-ho's home life and reasons for joining the marines, he hurriedly changes the subject to their names and what they mean. When heading to the restroom later, he, Young-il and Jung-bae witness Thanos almost attacking Lee Myung-gi before backing off (Young-il earlier protected Myung-gi and beat Thanos up for jumping him alongside Nam-gyu). Dae-ho tells Myung-gi if they harass him again, he can ask their team for help, but Myung-gi tells the three that he can take care of himself. Before lights out, Dae-ho learned from Gi-hun while the group moves their mattresses to the ground that players can start a fight when they're about to sleep, that killing each other adds more prize money to the piggy bank, which was part of how the whole game was designed.
The third game is Mingle, and for the first round (groups of ten) Dae-ho's team of five joins up with the four-person team of Cho Hyun-ju, Kim Young-mi, Jang Geum-ja, and Park Yong-sik, as well as Seon-nyeo. For the next round of four, 001 leaves the group to allow them to survive, and Dae-ho is relieved when he also survives to next round. For the round of three, Dae-ho splits with Jung-bae and Jun-hee, again surviving. For the following round of six, Dae-ho quickly volunteers to join the other group of four with Jun-hee, and after Dae-ho first runs into an already occupied room, Hyun-ju finds an empty one. In the confusion, Young-mi is knocked over and left behind, with Myung-gi taking her place, saving everyone inside the room due to the lack of time but leaving her to die. Hyun-ju blames him, but Jun-hee defends him, with Dae-ho agreeing with her and also defending him, stating there was no time for Young-mi to have made it to the room. In the final round, the number is two, and Dae-ho survives by pairing with Gi-hun.
After the round ends, Dae-ho and his allies' debate whether to try and convince people who voted "O" to switch or not. Dae-ho again votes "X", but the vote is a tie, and Dae-ho becomes worried when Jung-bae vaguely gives a warning about 001. He later brings this up in front of 001 but is stopped by Jung-bae. When an argument begins between the two factions, Dae-ho becomes offended when one of the "O" sides calls him a coward, so reveals his military tattoo and begins advancing, starting a conflict. However, both sides are calmed down before anything too drastic happens.
Dae-ho learns of a bathroom fight leading to multiple deaths, and Gi-hun warns them that the "O" side will likely attack them tonight. He agrees and joins Gi-hun's plan to allow their side to be attacked and likely killed, then to attack the guards and start a revolt. They successfully overpower the guards and begin the revolt outside. Despite his supposed knowledge in combat, Dae-ho quickly becomes terrified, shooting over the top of the barriers without looking and wasting all of his bullets quickly. When everyone begins to run out of bullets, Dae-ho volunteers to return to the dormitory to collect more. He manages to reach the room and begins hurriedly searching through the deceased guards whilst talking to himself. Sensing something is wrong, Yong-sik asks him what is happening and where everyone else is; Dae-ho attempts to explain his job but is terrified and unable to articulate himself. When his allies begin radioing in, Dae-ho suffers a panic attack and does not return, and instead hurries back to the dormitory. 
Hyun-ju arrives to see what happened and collect more bullets, where she discovers Dae-ho shaking and hiding on one of the beds. She attempts to talk to him and retrieve the bullets, but he breaks down and repeatedly apologizes. Many guards suddenly enter to control the situation, which Dae-ho complies with. 
Later, after the rebellion's failure, Dae-ho would remain hidden on his bunk in the dormitory and would then briefly leave his bunk to witness a bunch of pink guards delivering a coffin carrying an unconscious Gi-hun in the dormitory. Dae-ho then returns to his bunk and trembles in fear after witnessing Gi-hun attempting to end his own life following the rebellion's failure. Following this, Dae-ho voted "X" once again and then ate his sweet potatoes from his bunk before sleeping for the night. 
The next morning, Dae-ho woke up and would get uncomfortable from the morning alarm before witnessing Gi-hun giving him a death glare for his failure to deliver the magazines to his team during the revolt. Afterwards, Dae-ho and the remaining players are taken through the staircase maze where the bodies of the deceased rebels (including Jung-bae but excluding "Young-il" and Gyeong-seok) are hanged, causing him to shake in fear and almost throw up, and would get even more frightened after turning to Gi-hun and finding him still angrily staring at him. Later, before the start of the fourth game Hide and Seek, Dae-ho would be assigned to the blue team as a hider and given a key. After finding out Gi-hun is a seeker and would come for him, Dae-ho tries desperately swapping his place with some other seekers, but to no avail. Dae-ho would then get tired at Gi-hun staring at him and would furiously confront him and tell him its his fault the rebellion failed, and would attempt to shake him before getting stopped by a pink soldier. Dae-ho would then enter the maze and get a 2 minute head start alongside the other hiders and would then attempt to hide from Gi-hun and the other seekers. 
Sometime after that, Gi-hun starts following Dae-ho, who quickly tries to run all around the place, and Gi-hun quickly chases after, then, Dae-ho tries to unlock a door with his key, however It leads for a dead end for Dae-ho, when he tries to turn back, he is quickly held at knife point by Gi-hun, he begs for mercy, and when Gi-hun was going to kill him, he realized It was not really Dae-ho and in fact a player with a similar appearance to him, Player 197, Gi-hun spares him and later sees the real Dae-ho on the second floor. 
While trying to hide, he was attacked by Player 359. Dae-ho managed to overpower him and kicked him down the stairs, it's unknown if Player 359 died on impact or if he just got knocked unconscious and was later finished off by guards.  
Later when he fought off player 359 he bumped into Seon-nyeo and Gi-hun met Seon-nyeo, started to approach her thinking of killing her until she revealed the location of Dae-ho and she said that she would cleanse his sins, which made him believe, and he gonna to finding Dae-ho and realized from the traces of blood that he was in the corner. When he found him, Dae-ho began to beg him for mercy and admitted that he was not a marine and his tattoo was not real like a marine's, which made Gi-hun even more enraged and he threw him to the stairs and started yelling that it was his fault and while Dae-ho was begging, he waved the knife with a trembling hand (showing he was hesitant to kill him) and at that time Dae-ho took the blade of Player 359's knife. Then began to accuse and mock Gi-hun for starting the rebellion until it occurred to him that he had lured everyone in on purpose to get money, which made Dae-ho enraged and tried to kill him, but Gi-hun managed to block his blow and Dae-ho tried to escape and Gi-hun tried to catch him but Dae-ho managed to escape.  

Fate[]
      
It's all your fault... It's your...
Kang Dae-ho's last words to Seong Gi-hun in "The Starry Night"
Eventually, Gi-hun caught up to Dae-ho, and Dae-ho opened the room where the abyss was which meant he was at a dead end with Gi-hun and he took off his shoe and tried to hit Gi-hun, he managed to knock the blade away from him and tried to strangle him in rage but Gi-hun was able to fight him off and knocked him to the floor, causing him to hit in face several times and started to strangle him to death. Just before his death, Dae-ho told him that the failure of the Revolt was his fault, and not his own, when Gi-hun strangled him, he came to his senses after his blind rage and was shocked by his actions. Gi-hun was emotionally traumatized at killing his former friend with his own hands and began to blame himself for the failed revolt. He would later attempt to commit suicide only for the Pink Guards to knock him unconscious.

Kill count[]
Confirmed killsAttempted killsIndirect kills


Character

Information

Image/GIF


"Friend or Foe"Rebellion


Soldier

Hit them with a broken glass bottle over his head during the Revolt.






Character

Information

Image/GIF


"The Starry Night"Hide and Seek


Seong Gi-hun(Player 456)

Attempted to stab him after thinking Gi-hun killed his friends to win the games for himself. Later attempted to kill Gi-hun again via strangulation.





Character

Information

Image/GIF


"Friend or Foe"Rebellion


Player 324

Indirectly caused by not bringing back the magazines during the Revolt.




Player 145




Park Jung-bae(Player 390)




"The Starry Night"Hide and Seek


Player 359

Kicked him down a flight of stairs which knocked him out, causing him to be shot by the guards; self-defense.



Trivia[]
His fear of gunshots can be seen many times around S2, with him quickly flinching and covering his ears when any gunshots happen (during Six-Legged Pentathlon and the Revolt).
Due to dialogue referencing the Vietnam War, which has sparked criticism for allegedly distorting history. Vietnamese state media outlet Lao Dong reported on Monday that the Culture Ministry’s Cinema Department is reviewing whether the second season of Squid Game violates Vietnam’s laws.
He saved Cho Hyun-ju as his retreat in the rebellion drew her back to him, while all the others were killed (except for Seong Gi-hun).
It is likely that he was abused as a child. When he was asked about his family/past, he quickly changed the subject. When Hyun-ju asked him where the ammo was in the revolt, he flinched, and covered his head reflexively with his hands when Hyun-ju grabbed the ammo. And when he was asked why he joined the marines, he lied and said "It was my dad's idea. He said I had to be tougher." Which could mean that Dae-ho was 'sensitive' when he was (possibly) hit or physically punished. This could also be the stem for his insecurity and feel of needing to lie to be worthy enough.
This is further reinforced by the fact that Dae-ho was part of community service instead of active military duty. In Korea, military service is mandatory for all men, but those deemed physically or mentally unfit are assigned to lighter community service tasks. This suggests that Dae-ho may have struggled with both physical and emotional challenges growing up, which could explain his nervousness, fear in high-pressure situations, a possible anxiety disorder (which is showed multiple times during season 2 with some nervous tics, spasms or gestures) and tendency to fabricate a tougher persona to fit in with his peers.
Dae-ho is the only friend of Gi-hun that was directly killed by him.
Kim Yeong-sam sarcastically joked back about that Dae-ho isn't actually from the marines. The Frontman could know this too since he has access to their personal info from their files.
Dae-ho claims that "Dae" means big, and "ho" means tiger. In reality, “Dae” actually means great and “ho” actually means hero.
He is one of the few characters whose elimination wasn’t announced in Hide and Seek.
Kang Dae-ho was the last Hider to be eliminated in Hide and Seek. He is also the only Hider who wasn’t killed by stabbing.
He is the only main character who is not seen during the Red Light Green Light game.
Dae-ho is one of the few main characters whose exact motive that led him to participate in The Squid Games is unknown.
In "It's Not Your Fault", four stars can be seen above Dae-ho's corpse, which may resemble his four sisters.
He has the same surname as his actor, Kang Ha-neul. But in Kang Ha-neul's case, his real first name is Kim.
He shares his name with the alias of a character from the 2013 film Commitment, which was played by T.O.P, the actor who plays Thanos in Squid Game.
After the failure of the revolt, Dae-ho distanced himself greatly from his allies out of fear, which is why after the fourth game no one seemed to care about his absence.
Dae-ho is the only one of Jun-hee's friends who were still alive for Hide and Seek who never found out that she gave birth.
You can almost constantly see that Dae-ho is always holding Jun-hee's hand and guiding her in every round in Mingle. This then becomes different where Dae-ho ignores Jun hee during Hide and Seek.
If Player 209 didn't kill Player 197 or Player 134, then Dae-ho is the only X player in hide and seek to be harmed by another X, being Player 359 and Seong Gi-hun.
He is the last player in the 38X range to be eliminated in the 37th squid game.
Him and Player 172 are the only two hiders that hid behind doors. Also Player 172 injured his arm meanwhile Dae-ho injured his leg.
Since Dae-ho placed 36th in the competition, his 33rd Squid Game counterpart is Player 040.
He is the only member of his Pentathlon Team to die in the fourth game.
Both unnamed players he interacted with were not only both seekers, but also had the numbers 3X9.
If all the family that he mentions in the show are still alive, then his file would not have enough space in the family sector to cover all of them, as there are only five slots while he mentions his father, mother, and four sisters.
He is one of the characters confirmed to have a tattoo. (The others being Park Jung-bae, Jang Deok-su, Thanos, Nam-gyu, and Player 202)
He is the member of his pentathlon team who has been seen voting the least times on screen: he voted on screen only once during the third vote.
Mistakes[]
At the first voting, when his number is called, Player 389 is seen going to vote instead.
In the English dub and sub, when Dae-ho supposedly admits that he wasn't a marine, in the episode The Starry Night, in Korean (the series original language), Dae-ho says that he served as a Social Services Personnel instead of a Marine, so he never got to shoot a gun properly.[2]
In the Season 3 poster, Dae-ho was seen wearing an O patch, while he still wears an X patch throughout the show.
Behind the scenes[]
Kang Dae-ho is portrayed by Kang Ha-neul and Lee Tae-young as a stunt double, and voiced in the English dub by Caleb Yen and french dub by Fabrice Lelyon. During his Gonggi scene in Six Legged Pentathlon, Kang Ha-neul was doubled by Gonggi expert Park Jong-Nam and Lee Tae-young during Hide and Seek
The reason of why Park Jong-nam played Dae-ho in the gonggi scene is because Kang Ha-neul has his pinky finger separated from birth, which made the Gonggi stones fall from his hand on stage 5, so the director called Jong-nam (a Gonggi expert) so that he could help Ha-neul in that scene.[3]

Appearances[]
Season Two
"001" (icon)
"Six Legs"
"One More Game"
"O X"
"Friend or Foe"
Season Three
"Keys and Knives"
"The Starry Night"
"It's Not Your Fault" (corpse)
Gallery[]
Season 2[]
Kang Dae-ho's icon.Dae-ho's off-screen vote in the first voting round.Kang Dae-ho's first appearance.Kang Dae-ho introducing himself.Ditto.Ditto.Kang Dae-ho and Park Jung-bae saluting eachother.Kang Dae-ho introduces Player 096 to the group.Kang Dae-ho sees that Kim Jun-hee is pregnant.Kang Dae-ho looking at Kim Jun-hee.Kang Dae-ho says he's good at Gonggi.Ditto.Kang Dae-ho witnesses the deaths of the first two teams.Kang Dae-ho watching Park Yong-sik pass Biseokchigi.Kang Dae-ho cheering for Cho Hyun-ju's team in the Six-Legged Pentathlon.Kang Dae-ho hugging with Park Jung-bae and Kim Jun-hee.Dae-ho waiting to play Six-Legged Pentathlon.Dae-ho passing Gonggi.Dae-ho screams with excitement.Dae-ho and his group manage to cross the finish line.Dae-ho talking with Park Jung-bae.Dae-ho explains that his name means big tiger.Dae-ho's offscreen vote in the second voting roundDae-ho and Kim Jun-hee before the lights go out.Dae-ho staring at Seon-nyeo as she rambles.Dae-ho asking Young-il about his joke.Dae-ho and his group laughing at Young-il's joke.Dae-ho realizing room 02 is filled.Dae-ho and Gi-hun running to room 37.Dae-ho voting X in the third round of votingDae-ho watching the amount of X votes on the scoreboard increaseDae-ho telling the O's players that if they don't leave now they'll die.Dae-ho shows his fake Marine Corps tattoo to Kim Yeong-sam only to be met with laughter.Dae-ho gets held back by Park Yong-sik and Player 072 from fighting Yeong-sam and Team O.Dae-ho and Park Jung-bae during Special Game.Kang Dae-ho and Park Jung-bae playing dead.Dae-ho looking at his gun.Ditto.Dae-ho is scared by the gunshots during the Rebellion in the stairs.Dae-ho with a player's blood on his face.Dae-ho wasting bullets.Dae-ho afraid to carry the ammunitionDae-ho doesn't respond to Cho Hyun-ju.Dae-ho flinching when Cho Hyun-ju asks him where the ammo is.
Season 3[]
Dae-ho's looked at the coffin holding Gi-hun.Dae-ho trying to ignore Gi-hun's screams.Dae-ho getting death glared by Gi-hun in "Keys and Knives"Ditto, but in GIF.Dae-ho walking up the stairs to the 4th game.Kang Dae-ho receiving the blue ball.Dae-ho trying to convince Player 349 to change teams.Dae-ho as Player 349 refused to change teams.Dae-ho tells Gi-hun that it's all his fault.Dae-ho running.Dae-ho looking at Gi-hun.Dae-ho after Player 359 rolled down the stairs.Ditto.Ditto again.Dae-ho opens the trapdoor.Ditto.Dae-ho begging for mercy and admitting he was not a Marine, but a Social Service Personnel.Dae-ho's final moments.Dae-ho's death.Dae-ho's corpse.Ditto, in episode "It's Not Your Fault".
Promotional[]
Kang Dae-ho's in the "Welcome Players" teaser.Kang Dae-ho's promotional icon.Kang Dae-ho entering the Six-Legged Pentathlon arena.Kang Dae-ho looking at the hanged corpses of the rebels.Kang Dae-ho's poster.Dae-ho beside Park Min-su.Dae-ho in a poster looking at In-ho.Dae-ho in Hide and Seek promotional image.Ditto.
Behind the scenes/Stunt Double (Lee Tae-young)[]
Dae-ho in BTS Hide and Seek.Park Jong-nam about to play Gonggi in BTS footage.Kang Ha-neul talking about practicing Gonggi.Kang Ha-neul practicing Gonggi.BTS of Kang Dae-ho with the camerawoman.Ditto.BTS of Kang Dae-ho with the camerawoman in Hide and Seek.Ditto.BTS of Kang Dae-ho in Hide and Seek.Dae-ho's stunt double fighting Gi-hun.Dae-ho after getting hit by Gi-hun.Ditto.Dae-ho in the Hide and Seek lobby in BTS.
References[]

↑ The 37th Squid Game began directly after Seong Gi-hun met with the Front Man on October 31, with Hide and Seek occurring on November 5, as a day was skipped after the tiebreak vote.

↑ [1]

↑ https://youtu.be/qbVkkBY5TaM?t=146

Season Two37th Squid GameMain Characters
001
007
120
149
222
230
333
388
390
456
Major Characters
044
047
095
100
124
125
196
226
246
256
380
Supporting Characters
004
006
009
015
016
043
050
066
072
096
145
172
178
189
192
197
198
206
220
254
283
285
313
324
336
343
348
353
394
400
418
442
444
Minor Characters
031
039
045
067
080
084
135
140
165
185
188
199
202
203
209
216
237
238
239
249
257
260
263
270
286
306
308
328
331
350
355
371
384
395
401
415
416
435
448
453
454
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
Others
The Salesman
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Kang Eun-ji
Park Jung-bae
Ex-wifeM
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Chief Kim
Lee Ju-hong
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Mr. Kim
Choi Woo-seok
Lee Jang-uk
Hwang Jae-hun
Yun Jun-ho
Sea Captains
Sea Captain Park
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-wooN
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Hwang In-ho's wife
Kang Sae-byeokNP
Kang Sae-byeok's motherP
Kang Cheol
Park Mal-soon
Park Mi-yeong
Broker
Dentist
Season Three37th Squid GameMain Characters
007
120
124
125
149
222B
246PG
333
388
456
Major Characters
039
044
096
100
203
226
306
336
353
Supporting Characters
006
009
172
192
197
202
230H
232
235
260
349
377
380H
390C
394
400
411
418
442
447
Minor Characters
024
028
047C
048
080
084
105
119
134
145
154
163
191
209
241
276
296
310
312
334
344
350
359
435
440
443
448
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Kim Jung-ho
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
VIPs
Richard
Jennifer
John
Jack
Kevin
Others
Waiters
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Choi Woo-seok
Kim Mu-dong
Sea Captains
Park Yeong-gil
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Kang Sae-byeokH
Kang Sae-byeok's mother
Kang Cheol
Oh Il-namF
Park Man-cheol