Title: David Park
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/David_Park
--------------------------------------------------
David Park






Name
David Park[1]


Aliases
Number 002Soldier 002


Family
Park Chang-hee † (father)Lee Sang-eun (mother)Lee Su-eun (wife)


Relationships
George (Mafia Leader)Sharks (Enemies/Attempted Killlers/Attempted/Possible Victims)


Affiliation
Joon GroupSquid GamesPink Guards


Occupation
Squid Game soldier


Born
February 1, 1988Chungcheong, South Korea


Fate

Status
Unknown (Presumably alive)



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Brown


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Choi Jun-seok





First appearance
Last appearance




"001"
"Humans Are..." (photo)






David Park (데이비드 박 Daeibideu Bak?), also known as Soldier 002, is a soldier during the 37th Squid Game, having started working as a staff member since the 27th Squid Game.

Contents

1 History

1.1 Background
1.2 Fate


2 Trivia
3 Appearances
4 Gallery
5 References


History[]
Background[]
David Park was born on February 1, 1988 in South Chungcheong to his parents, Park Chang-hee and Lee Sang-eun. During his childhood, he moved to Sheffield, England with his family. Sometime during his adulthood, he would join a mafia in the UK, led by a man named George.
At some point, he completed unknown 'training' in Japan. David repatriated to South Korea, where he became involved in illegal drug auctions with "Joon Group". He also eventually got married to a woman named Lee Soo-eun.
In April 2014, he started working as a staff member in the Squid Games, eventually ranking up to become a soldier. His father died at some point during or before 2024.
In the early morning of November 1, 2024, David met in a trailer in the Tancheon parking lot and changed into his soldier uniform before being transported to the island in preparation for the 37th Squid Game.

Fate[]
Its known David participated in quelling the revolt because of his actor being one of the Guards in the revolt, but we don't know if he was killed during it. His guard file would later be shown when Kang No-eul flips through the soldier files for the 37th Squid Game.

Trivia[]
According to his personnel file, David Park's blood type is B. He lives in Asan, South Chungcheong Province.
He is the only known guard to have originated from outside of Asia.
His Actor is the Stunt Doubles of Seong Gi-hun, Hwang In-ho, Cho Hyun-ju, Kang No-eul, Player 202 and Player 406 and also portrayed Number 029 and Player 366.
Appearances[]
Season Two
"001"
"Six Legs"
"One More Game"
"O X"
"Friend or Foe"
Season Three
"Keys and Knives"
"The Starry Night"
"It's Not Your Fault"
"222"
"Humans Are..." (photo)
Gallery[]
David's file.His file (fixed angle + higher quality)A recreation of his file.An assortment of photos of him.Photo from February 2014, shortly after he re-entered South Korea from the UK. At that time, he was still a member of the Juwon group and was handling tasks readily.Him while he was dating his girlfriend in October 2019. They got married shortly later.Two more images of him, date and subject unknown. They were presumably taken at the same time due to the shared caption.His locker.Him at his locker.
References[]

↑ "Humans Are...", 9:12