Title: Dragon Motors
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Dragon_Motors
--------------------------------------------------
Dragon Motors






Name
Dragon Motors


Known members
Seong Gi-hun † (formerly)Park Jung-bae † (formerly)Unnamed co-workerMany unnamed workers


Appearances




First appearance
Last appearance




"A Fair World"(hallucination)
"Six Legs"(mentioned)






Dragon Motors was an automobile company in South Korea where Seong Gi-hun and Park Jung-bae used to work at.

History[]
Seong Gi-hun of Ssangmun-dong started working at Dragon Motors as a member of Assembly Team One around 1995. During that time, he met Park Jung-bae, and the two became friends. For sixteen years, Gi-hun made parts for cars alongside his colleagues.
On June 8, 2011, the company suffered financial trouble and fired a lot of the workers at once, including Gi-hun and his friend. At the time of the strike, Gi-hun's wife was going to give birth to Ga-yeong, but needing money to financially support his family, him and Jung-bae decided to join the strike alongside the workers who their bosses held responsible and ruined the company for all of them. During the strike, Gi-hun and his colleagues built a barricade to protect themselves from any riots and kept watch. The company tried to make a deal that would give their workers extra severance pay, which Jung-bae almost took, but backed out because he realized the situation Gi-hun was in.
When the police arrived, they attacked the workers, and Gi-hun witnessed one of his colleagues die in front of him. Unfortunately, Gi-hun could not witness his child's birth as his wife was already in labor at the time of the strike. Gi-hun resigned from his job by the end of June, with Jung-bae following suit.
Later, during the 37th Squid Game, Gi-hun had a hallucination of his former job. During the "Six Legs", Jung-bae mentions the company twice. First before the night, Jung-bae mentioned that Gi-hun screamed in his sleep that he's hungry. Later during Six-Legged Pentathlon, Jung-bae mentions he was part of the company baseball team.

Gallery[]
The police attacking the workers that took part in the strike.One of Gi-hun's coworkers before his death.