Title: Episode Title Meanings
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Episode_Title_Meanings
--------------------------------------------------
Every Squid Game episode has a unique title with unique meanings related to the episode. This page shows the meanings of all the episode names in Netflix's TV series Squid Game from Season 1 to Season 3.

Contents

1 Season 1

1.1 "Red Light, Green Light"
1.2 "Hell"
1.3 "The Man with the Umbrella"
1.4 "Stick to the Team"
1.5 "A Fair World"
1.6 "Gganbu"
1.7 "VIPS"
1.8 "Front Man"
1.9 "One Lucky Day"


2 Season 2

2.1 "Bread and Lottery"
2.2 "Halloween Party"
2.3 "001"
2.4 "Six Legs"
2.5 "One More Game"
2.6 "O X"
2.7 "Friend or Foe"


3 Season 3

3.1 "Keys and Knives"
3.2 "The Starry Night"
3.3 "It's Not Your Fault"
3.4 "222"
3.5 "⭘△☐"
3.6 ""Humans Are...""




Season 1[]
"Red Light, Green Light"[]
Red Light, Green Light refers to the first game presented in both seasons of Squid Game, that being Red Light, Green Light.

"Red Light Green Light" is also the code Gi-hun uses when he is picked up by the van to be driven to the games. It is presumed all the players are given this code to use so the staff know who is and who is not a player in the games.
"Hell"[]
Hell is a place commonly regarded as a spiritual realm of evil and suffering.

The real world outside of the games is a world where the players of the games are suffering.
Oh Il-nam's line "Out here, the torture is worse" refers to how the 'real world' outside of the Squid Games is a worse environment for the players than the games themselves: even though the penalty for failure in the games is death, everyone has a fair and equal chance to 'fight fair and win'.
In the English sub, Mi-nyeo says her reason for voting O is that "It's Hell out there".
"The Man with the Umbrella"[]
The aforementioned umbrella directly refers to the umbrella-shaped dalgona cookie in Dalgona. This also refers to how Gi-hun chose the umbrella shape, he is the man with the umbrella.

Seong Gi-hun would frequently lose his umbrellas as a child.
As a result, his mother would give Gi-hun broken umbrellas to bring to school. Broken umbrellas typically do not function as well as regular umbrellas, resulting in letting the rain in.
Ironically, breaking the umbrella-shaped cookie in the games would result in elimination and death.
Gi-hun's strategy of licking the dalgona cookie could be seen as letting the umbrella 'get wet' instead of breaking it.
"Stick to the Team"[]
Several teams are formed, the most notable of them being Seong Gi-hun's team and Jang Deok-su's gang.

Byeong-gi states that Jang Deok-su has a strong team and wishes to join, then reveals that he knows what the next game is.
During Tug of War, players must gather into several teams of ten.
During Tug of War the players are also chained together and to the rope making them stuck to the team.
"A Fair World"[]
All players have an equal chance to win the games.

This principle is subverted by Byeong-gi, whose expertise as a doctor is used by the guards to help in the operating room in exchange for hints in the next game.
Hwang In-ho has Byeong-gi and the guards who help him executed for breaking this principle, and their bodies are on display the following episode.
"Gganbu"[]
Gganbu refers to a close friend or partner who shares everything and is willing to help out in dire times.

Seong Gi-hun and Oh Il-nam, and to a lesser scale Cho Sang-woo and Ali Abdul can be considered gganbu. Il-nam also reminds Gi-hun of the definition of the term.
Both Gi-hun and Sang-woo end up tricking Il-nam and Ali respectively, leading to the elimination of both partners.
While Gi-hun feels guilty about using Il-nam's dementia against him, Sang-woo does not appear to show as much guilt over tricking Ali.
"VIPS"[]
Refers to The VIPs, who are wealthy individuals who fund and spectate the games.

"Front Man"[]
Refers to Hwang In-ho, the aforementioned 'Front Man' who oversees the games and the winner of the 28th Squid Game.

In-ho pursues his brother Hwang Jun-ho throughout the episode, the latter of which is searching for In-ho and discovers his role as Front Man.
"One Lucky Day"[]
The "lucky day" in question could have many different meanings. However it is meant to mean the day that Gi-hun wins the games.

Ironically, Gi-hun's day is not lucky at all. While he wins the prize money, both Sang-woo and Sae-byeok lose their lives, and he returns home only to learn that his mother had also died a few days prior between the games from diabetes.
Gi-hun resolves to never touch his prize money and spends a whole year being homeless and drunk on the streets while being one of the richest men in all of South Korea.
The "lucky day" could be considered as the day Gi-hun learns the truth from Oh Il-nam and finds out that Il-nam was the creator of the games. After this, Gi-hun begins spending his money on a haircut and a plane flight to visit his daughter... but then he sees The Recruiter recruiting someone else for the games and decides to dedicate his life to stopping the games instead.
Season 2[]
"Bread and Lottery"[]
This refers to the chance which The Recruiter is seen giving homeless people. Either a bread roll (life) or a small chance to win money.

This also is a reference to the players decision to enter the games and also continue the games. They either chose life (not continuing the games) or money (continuing the games)
"Halloween Party"[]
This refers to the party at Club HDH that Gi-hun and Choi Woo-seok attend in order to find the frontman.

"001"[]
The title 001 refers to the final voter after the first game in both seasons. Oh Il-nam was the final voter previously and voted to leave however this time the final voter votes to stay and is revealed to be the frontman himself under disguise as "Oh Young-il"

"Six Legs"[]
Refers to the second game in the 37th Squid Game - Six-Legged Pentathlon

"One More Game"[]
Refers to the chant that Team O use in the second vote. They chant to play one more game.

This also can be a refernce to how gambling addicts always attempt to play one more game and end up going into debt because of it.
"O X"[]
Refers to the major divison and split between the two sides during and after the third vote and the tension and conlict between them.

"Friend or Foe"[]
This episode's title refers to "Oh Young-il" and his eventual betrayal of the group since he is pretending to be their friend but is actually their foe.

Park Jung-bae had also tried to warn Gi-hun and Kang Dae-ho that something felt off about their friend as he witnessed him break someone's neck during the final round of the previous game but for unknown reasons decided not to.
Season 3[]
"Keys and Knives"[]
Refers to the fourth game Hide and Seek and the items which both teams are given during this game. Keys for the Hiders and Knives for the Seekers.

"The Starry Night"[]
Refers to the arena for the fourth game which is mainly decorated with a star like pattern. This also refers to Vincent Van Gogh's famous painting of the Starry Night. 

The design of the room was confirmed in a behind the scenes video to revolve around children making their way home through alley ways late at night.
"It's Not Your Fault"[]
The title of this episode can be a reference to its not the players fault what happens to anyone else. Most the episode also centres around 2 players blaming themselves for previous events while one shows guilt but doesn't blame himself or attempt to make amends.

During the previous episode Seong Gi-hun and Kang Dae-ho had been arguing and blaming each other for the failed rebellion. After Gi-hun killed the latter he came to his senses and said "It's my fault" before trying to kill himself with the knife. Admitting that it was not Dae-ho's fault.
While eating Kim Jun-hee tearfully apologises to Jang Geum-ja saying "it's all because of her" (Presumably referencing her son Yong-sik and Cho Hyun-ju's deaths. Guem-ja responds and tells her not to think that way and that it's not her fault.
In her final plea to Seong Gi-hun, Jang Geum-ja states that the failed Rebellion and the following deaths of his friends and her son was not his fault since he blames himself for them after killing Dae-ho and realising that it was not actually Dae-ho's fault the rebellion failed.
During the episode Kim Jun-hee blames herself for the deaths of Guem-ja and Hyun-ju and Gi-hun tells her that its not her fault they died and they made their own choices.
This could also be a reference to how Guem-ja blames herself for Young-sik's death.
"222"[]
This is a reference to Jun-hee's player number as Gi-hun is supporting her and trying to find a way to get back across the bridge in order to save her and carry her over.

This can also be a reference to how The VIPs decided to enter Kim Jun-hee's baby into the game in her mothers place as Player 222 after Jun-hee jumped off the platform comitting suicide so Gi-hun did not die trying to save her and so her baby could live with someone who would take care of her.
"⭘△☐"[]
A reference to the shapes of the towers in the final game Sky Squid Game.

""Humans Are...""[]
This is a reference to Gi-hun's final words before he sacrifices himself. We are not horses, we are humans and humans are...

The staff of the games and VIP's refer to the players as their horses.
This is because the players bet on racing horses and the VIP's bet on the players during the games.