Title: Episode 7
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Episode_7
--------------------------------------------------
Season One


Red Light, Green Light

Hell

The Man with the Umbrella

Stick to the Team

A Fair World

Gganbu

V.I.P.S

Front Man

One Lucky Day


This article is about the episode. For the characters in the show, see here


VIPs





							Title
							
						



							Episode
							
						






















Season
Episode
Overall




1
7
7





Episode Information

Duration
57 minutes


Air Date
September 17, 2021


Writer
Hwang Dong-hyuk


Director
Hwang Dong-hyuk




Episode Guide


Previous
Next




"Gganbu"
"Front Man"





VIPS (stylized as V.I.P.S) is the 7th episode of the Season 1 of the Netflix TV series Squid Game.

Contents

1 Official Summary
2 Plot
3 Cast

3.1 Starring
3.2 Guest Starring
3.3 Co-Starring


4 Deaths
5 Trivia
6 References


Official Summary[]
The Masked Leader welcomes VIP guests to the facility for a front-row viewing of the show. In the fifth game, some players crack under pressure.

—Official Netflix synopsis
Plot[]
Ali Abdul is taken along with the other eliminated players to the incinerator while the Front Man watches, he asks a Manager if the Pink Guards have found Hwang Jun-ho yet, the Manager tells him no and Front Man tells him to catch Jun-ho since the VIPs will arrive soon.
The survivors of the fourth game return to the Dormitory and discover Han Mi-nyeo was not executed, despite not having participated in the game. The players are all shocked by this, especially Jang Deok-su. Cho Sang-woo sees that there're 17 players left and that the Prize money has increased to ₩43,900,000,000.
Front Man receives a call and proceeds to answer, but he realizes that someone touched the telephone because it's hung up normally (and Front Man always hangs it up backwards), Front Man answers the call and when finished, he proceeds to look for the intruder. Front asks Jun-ho if he's there and tells him that he's good as an intruder, but that he made a mistake with the telephone. Front Man begins searching with his gun while telling Jun-ho that he knows he's a police officer because the bullet in Number 028's head was from a Smith and Wesson M60 revolver, the model used by the Korean police, Front Man arrives at the archive room and Jun-ho prepares his gun while Front Man approaches his hideout, but then Front Man is informed that the guards found a body on the northern coast of The Island, Front Man runs to the place and Jun-ho is saved from being discovered.
The mood back in the dorms is solemn, with most of the players having lost the person they were closest to in the games, Kang Sae-byeok feels sad about Ji-yeong's death and can barely eat while Seong Gi-hun misses Oh Il-nam and hasn't even started eating, Cho Sang-woo, however, tells Gi-hun not to feel bad because the old man was merely a random person he met a few days ago and tells him that Player 069 was worse, because his partner was his wife, Player 070.
On the northern coast, Front Man sees that the guards found the corpse of Number 029 and the Manager shows him that they found Jun-ho's police ID, Front Man sees it and is informed that The VIPs have arrived, Front Man tells the guards to incinerate the corpse of 29 and leaves.
In the Dormitory, 069 begs the other players to end the games because he cannot continue after losing 070, he says that if 9 of them decide to finish the game, they can leave and that if they want to leave, they should get up, but no one does, 069 questions that they are human for continuing the game for money and tells them that they killed the person closest to them there, just for the money. But then Sang-woo steps in and reminds 069 and the others that all their effort will be for nothing if they quit. Gi-hun and the other players can only look on in pity, knowing Sang-woo is right.
The VIPs (6 elegant men with golden animal masks) arrive at the island and Front Man informs The Host (who is very well dressed and wears a golden owl mask), but the Host takes off his mask and asks Front Man to attend to the guests for him. Front Man receives the VIPs and welcomes them, the VIPs ask about the Host to which Front Man tells them that he had to attend to some urgent matters and apologizes on his behalf. Front Man takes the VIPs with him while Jun-ho sees them from hiding.
In the Dormitory, the players go to sleep while they continue to mourn the death of their acquaintances, the VIPs arrive at a room to watch the fifth game and then VIP 4 starts yelling at someone not to do something, the others ask him what's wrong and VIP 4 tells them that 069 decided to commit suicide by hanging and that he bet $1,000,000 that 069 would win, they ask him why he chose 069 and VIP 4 explains that he likes the number 069. Front Man tells them that they can bet again when the game starts, suggests that they go rest in their rooms and tells them that they'll let them know when everything is ready. A group of Waiters are carrying drinks for VIPs when 1 of them is cornered by Jun-ho, Jun-ho points his gun at him and tells him his shift is over, Jun-ho leaves the waiter unconscious and tied up in a food cellar, takes his suit and hides his cell phone in his sleeve to record what happens.
The next morning, the players wake up to find that Player 069 had hung himself out of heartbreak from the trauma, most are shocked, including the guilt-ridden Sang-woo, Deok-su on the other hand is overjoyed as his chances of winning have only increased, the screen shows that there're 16 players remain and the prize increases to ₩44,000,000,000. Players are led by guards to the fifth game hall and the VIPs watch while they try to decide which players to bet on, VIP 4 asks Jun-ho for a glass of wine, Jun-ho gives it to him and both men exchange glances. VIP 4 asks Front Man to tell them what the next game is, to which VIP 2 tells Front Man that he better do it, Front Man agrees, a Soldier reveals a small bridge and the VIPs wonder what it is.
Players arrive at a white hall with mannequins wearing vests with numbers from 01 to 16 and are asked to choose a number. The VIPs proceed to choose a player to win and VIP 4 chooses Player 096, VIP 3 asks him why and VIP 4 says "Well, if I can't do 069, I'll try 096.", the VIPs laugh and Jun-ho records everything that happens. Gi-hun tries to decide what number to take and they think there are 16 players left and there are 16 numbers, then Player 244 decides to take number 06 (because God created man on Earth on the sixth day) and Player 151 chooses number 07 (because it's the lucky number), Player 453, Player 407, Deok-su, Jung Min-tae, Mi-nyeo and Player 360 run out and choose numbers 05, 08, 09, 10, 11 and 12 respectively.
The VIPs notice that the players chose the middle numbers first since it seems safe and Gi-hun doesn't know what to do since only the beginning numbers (01, 02, 03 and 04) and the end numbers (13, 14, 15 and 16) remain. The players are having a hard time deciding which number to take and the VIPs tell Front Man to give them a hint, then the Announcer informs the players that the numbers are the order in which they will play and she asks them to make their decision carefully.
Gi-hun believes that the first ones have an advantage if there is a time limit and decides to take one of the first numbers, but then he stops, he thinks that it could be very risky to be one of the first without knowing what the game is and believes that the last ones can see the others and make a plan, he decides to take one of the last numbers but Do Jung-soo (Player 017), Sang-woo and Sae-byeok go ahead and take numbers 13, 14 and 15 respectively, leaving number 16 as the only number in the end, Gi-hun isn't sure if it's a good idea to take 16 since he thinks being last could be dangerous, Players 308, 062 and 021 run and take numbers 02, 03 and 04 respectively, leaving number 01 as the only number in the beginning, Gi-hun starts to worry since he can't decide if it's better to take 01 or 16 because being first and being last could be risky. The VIPs mention that Gi-hun's decision is difficult and then VIP 4 sees 096 doing something. 096 approaches Gi-hun and asks if he can take 01, he explains that he always lived his entire life hiding behind others like a coward and wants to take control of his life for once and be the first to play. Gi-hun accepts, 096 takes number 01 and Gi-hun stays with number 16, VIP 4 gets angry at 096's decision and the other VIPs laugh at his bad luck.
The group is brought into the next room, which is modeled after a circus tent, with two columns of multiple glass panels ahead of them. The PA announces that the fifth game is Glass Stepping Stones and that in each row, there is one tempered glass panel which can support the weight of two players and a normal glass panel, which will break if even one player lands on it. The objective is to cross to the other side before the 16-minute time limit runs out. 096 quickly realizes that he will be the first player to guess the correct panels and looks back to Gi-hun in horror and Gi-hun can only look away sympathetically.
096 walks to the front while the VIPs see him and VIP 4 insults him, then VIP 4 asks Jun-ho to bring him another scotch and tells him to sit with him so he doesn't have to keep calling him, but Jun-ho tells him that he must serve the other VIPs, VIP 4 tells the others that he'll stay with Jun-ho next to him and asks if anyone minds, the others tell him it's okay and VIP 4 seats Jun-ho next to him. 096 steps up to the edge of the platform, but is hesitant to jump onto the first row. The other players beg him to not waste time, and Deok-su walks up to him, threatening to push him off if he doesn't go. Eventually, 096 jumps onto the first panel and reveals it to be safe, but isn't as lucky for the second stepping stone, and falls to his death.
VIP 4, who develops a sexual attraction to the waiter, orders him to take off his mask, and threatens to kill him if he doesn't comply. Knowing he will be executed if he removes his mask, Jun-ho asks him to go someplace private, in which they both subsequently enter another room. In the secluded room, the VIP takes off Jun-ho's mask and then takes off his own clothes. The VIP attempts to molest him, but Jun-ho attacks and subdues the VIP and holds him at gunpoint, taking the VIP's mask off as well. Jun-ho then films the VIP over his phone, offering to spare his life if he tells him everything he knows about the game. The VIP is later found alive but unconscious in that room, but Jun-ho has already escaped, with the search for him continuing.
As the game progresses, the players near the start of the line fall to their deaths, while at the same time marking out a clear path for the remaining players. Gi-hun notes that there are enough glass tiles left for the last few players to cross without having to guess, but Sang-woo warns him that if the players in front waste time, they too will be in danger at the back. When Deok-su gets to the front, he refuses to continue, confirming Sang-woo's warning. Jung Min-tae, the player behind Deok-su, argues with Deok-su until an impatient Mi-nyeo shoves him onto Deok-Su, who pushes him off to his death. Mi-nyeo taunts Deok-su and calls him a coward, but the latter still refuses to budge. Mi-nyeo tells Deok-su she will go on ahead, but when Deok-su allows her to cross, she wraps her arms around him. Deok-su struggles, but is unable to pry her off of him. Mi-nyeo, as an act of revenge for him betraying her in the third game, throws the both of them off the bridge, killing them both in a murder-suicide.
As the timer runs down, only 4 players are left: Gi-hun, Sae-byeok, Sang-woo and Do Jung-soo, the lattermost being at the front of the line. He claims to be have been a glass manufacturer with over 30 years of experience, and says that if viewed from a certain angle, tempered glass will have faint stain marks. He correctly guesses the next several correct panels, to the relief of the other three. However, when the Front Man turns off the lights to remove his advantage, he is unable to determine the last correct panel. With time running out, Sang-woo mercilessly shoves Jung-soo off and into the last trick panel, sending him falling to his death. Sae-byeok and Gi-hun are in shock, but have no time to react as the timer approaches zero. The remaining three players safely make it across just as the timer runs out, and the remaining glass panels are shattered, sending sharp glass shards among the three remaining players.
As the remaining VIPs stand and applaud the game, the Masked Leader pursues Jun-ho, who has escaped the compound using the diving equipment.

Cast[]
Starring[]
Lee Jung-jae as Seong Gi-hun
Park Hae-soo as Cho Sang-woo
O Yeong-su as Oh Il-nam
Wi Ha-joon as Hwang Jun-ho
Jung Ho-yeon as Kang Sae-byeok
Heo Sung-tae as Jang Deok-su
Kim Joo-ryoung as Han Mi-nyeo
Anupam Tripathi as Ali Abdul
Yoo Sung-joo as Byeong-gi
Lee Yoo-mi as Ji-yeong
Guest Starring[]
John D. Michaels as VIP #1
Daniel C. Kennedy as VIP #2
David S. Lee as VIP #3
Geoffrey Giuliano as VIP #4
Stephane Mot as VIP #5
Michael Davis as VIP #6
Kwon Yoo-joon as Masked Front Man Stand-in
Im Ki Hong as Jung Min-tae
Lee Sang Hee as Do Jung-soo
Co-Starring[]
Jeon Young Soo voices Game Guide
Kim Shi Hyun as Player 244
Son Won Kyung as Player 360
Kim Yoon Tae as Player 069
Yang Mal Bok as Player 453
Lee Doo Suk as Player 062
Moon Byung Joo as Player 021
Go Byung taek as Player 407
Moon Jung Dae as Player 151
Hwang Youn Hee as Player 308
Jung Woo Hyuk as Player 096
Ji Seong Bin as Serving Mask Man
Ali Abdul (corpse)
Deaths[]
Player 069 (Committed suicide by hanging himself with a bed sheet after losing his wife)
Player 096 (Stepped on wrong glass tile and fell to death)
Player 308 (Stepped on a wrong glass tile and fell to death)
Player 062 (Stepped on wrong glass tile and fell to death)
Player 021 (Stepped on a wrong glass tile and fell to his death)
Player 453 (Stepped on a wrong glass tile and fell to death)
Player 151 (Thrown into normal glass tile by Player 244 and fell to death)
Player 244 (Pushed by Player 407 to the wrong panel and fell to his death)
Player 407 (Jumped on a bad glass plate and fell to his death)
Jung Min-tae (Pushed by Han Mi-nyeo and thrown off glass tile by Jang Deok-su and fell to death)
Han Mi-nyeo (Intentionally jumped off the glass bridge taking Jang Deok-su with her in a murder-suicide)
Jang Deok-su (Pulled off the glass bridge by Han Mi-nyeo in a murder-suicide and fell to death)
Player 360 (Stepped on wrong glass tile and fell to death)
Do Jung-soo (Pushed into wrong glass tile by Cho Sang-woo and fell to death)
Trivia[]
This episode features Glass Stepping Stones, the fifth and second to last game.
Hwang Jun-ho demonstrates good proficiency in the English language in this episode when conversing with VIP 4.
References[]


Squid GameSeason 1
Red Light, Green Light
Hell
The Man with the Umbrella
Stick to the Team
A Fair World
Gganbu
VIPS
Front Man
One Lucky Day
Season 2
Bread and Lottery
Halloween Party
001
Six Legs
One More Game
O X
Friend or Foe
Season 3
Keys and Knives
The Starry Night
It's Not Your Fault
222
⭘△☐
Humans Are...

es:LOS VIPS
fr:VIP
pt-br:VIPs