Title: Female Recruiter
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Female_Recruiter
--------------------------------------------------
American Recruiter






Name
Unknown


Aliases
Saleswoman


Relationships
Hwang In-ho (colleague)Homeless man (possible enemy; indirect victim)


Affiliation
Squid GamesAmerican Squid GamesAmerican Pink Guards  (possibly, formerly)


Occupation
American Squid Game Worker (possibly, formerly)American Squid Game Soldier (possibly, formerly)American Squid Game Manager (possibly, formerly)Recruiter


Fate

Status
Alive



Physical Description

Gender
Female


Eye color
Blue


Hair color
Blonde



Appearances

Portrayed by
Cate Blanchett





First appearance
Last appearance




"Humans Are..."
Squid Game: USA (Likely)







As you wish.

The American Recruiter to a man she was playing ddakji with in "Humans Are..."
This Unnamed Woman is a recruiter for the American counterpart of the Squid Games. Her methods of recruiting players are the same as the ones of the South Korean Recruiter; reaching out to people, offering them to play Ddakji for money, offering to pay in slaps for those who can't pay in money.
In May 2025, she was seen recruiting a homeless man in an alleyway in Los Angeles, California and sees Hwang In-ho, the Korean Front Man, parked in traffic on the road. She stares at him for about 20 seconds, then continues on with Ddakji, the Korean Front Man sighs and drives off.

Contents

1 History
2 Indirect kills
3 Trivia
4 Behind the scenes
5 Appearances
6 Gallery


History[]
Nothing is known about her past but it's highly implied that she was once a Pink Guard in American Squid Games just like The Salesman's backstory.

Indirect kills[]


Character

Information

Image/Gif


"Humans Are..." to UnknownUnknown Amount of Annual Games


American Players

Indirectly caused via recruiting them to the games; leading to most of their deaths by the hands of the gamerunners.



Trivia[]
She is the only westerner that isn't a VIP.
She is the only female recruiter to be shown.
She is the only female antagonist to be shown in "Humans Are...".
She is actually the last unnamed major antagonist of the entire series. Coincidentally, the Recruiter, is the first unnamed major antagonist of the entire series.
Behind the scenes[]
The American Recruiter is portrayed by Cate Blanchett.

Appearances[]
Season Three
"Humans Are..."
Gallery[]
American Recruiter slaps Homeless man.American Recruiter looking at Hwang In-ho in his car.