Title: Finalist Interlude Game
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Finalist_Interlude_Game
--------------------------------------------------
Finalist Interlude Game







Attendance:
5




Player statistics


Passed:
Eliminated:




4
1





Game Information

Teams?
No


Appears in:
"Red Light Green Light"




Continuation


Previous
Next




Shuffleboard
Red Light, Green Light






This game is an interlude game taking place between Shuffleboard and Red Light, Green Light.
5 players participated in this game. 1 player, Player 398, was eliminated, and the other four proceeded to the final round. This game wasn't played as planned since Player 398 sacrificed himself and took the black coin on purpose so that the others would have the golden coins and reach the last game.

Contents

1 Game information
2 Eliminated
3 Passed
4 Trivia
5 Gallery


Game information[]
The game involves playing minigames run by the contestants using five coins: two triangles, two squares, and one black one, the latter coin representing elimination. The first player must conceal the black coin and a gold coin in their hands and offer them to the next player, who must pick a hand and therefore a coin. Whoever is left with a black coin picks another gold coin and makes the same offer to the next player.
This continues until everyone has guessed once. The player with the black coin at the end of the game will be eliminated. The order of play is determined by the napkin at the seat they chose.

Eliminated[]
Trinity Savon (Player 398)
Passed[]
Vanessa Clements (Player 017)
Perla Figuereo (Player 072)
Steven Jones (Player 183)
Dajah Graham (Player 302)
Trivia[]
This is the last interlude game of the season.
Gallery[]
The dinner table before the players begin eating.Ditto.Trinity sitting down at the table.Dajah sitting at the table.Perla sitting at the table.Vanessa sitting at the table.Steven sitting at the table.The minigame the finalists will play.
GamesSeason 1
Red Light, Green Light
Dalgona
The Ringing Phone
Warships
Marbles
Glass Stepping Stones
Circle of Trust
Rock Paper Scissors
Season 2
The Count
Raul's Interlude Game
Six-Legged Pentathlon
Voting
Catch
Boiler Room
Mingle
 Marbles 
Slides and Ladders
Circle of Trust
Shuffleboard
Finalist Interlude Game
Red Light, Green Light