Title: Final Dinner/28th Squid Game
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Final_Dinner/28th_Squid_Game
--------------------------------------------------
Interlude games


Special Game(33rd & 37th)

Bathroom Fight

Rebellion

Final Dinner(28th & 33rd & 37th)





Final Dinner







Attendance:
6+




Player statistics


Passed:
Eliminated:




1
5+





Game Information

Teams?
Optional


Appears in:
"⭘△☐" (flashback)




Continuation


Previous
Next




Unknown 5th Game
Unknown 1st Game (29th Squid Games)Red Light, Green Light (next known game)





What? Why the hesitation? Tomorrow morning, the others will come for you, doing everything they can to kill you. So take that knife and kill them. At this point, it's the best chance you got.
Oh Il-nam to Hwang In-ho in "⭘△☐" (flashback)
The Final Dinner was an interlude game that took place after the fifth game during the 28th Squid Game, taking place in the dormitory just before the final game, which Player 132 survived.
After the meal, the finalists all went to sleep. Soon, Oh Il-nam for currently unknown reasons gifts Player 132 a dagger as an opportunity to increase his chances of winning. So, he took it and killed at least five finalists.
This game took place around August - September, 2015

Players Eliminated[]
Player ?53 - Stabbed in the neck and repeatedly in the chest with a knife by Hwang In-ho.
Player ??9 - Stabbed repeatedly with a knife by Hwang In-ho.
Player 3?? - Stabbed repeatedly with a knife by Hwang In-ho.
Player ??? - Stabbed repeatedly with a knife by Hwang In-ho.
Player ??? - Stabbed repeatedly with a knife by Hwang In-ho.
Player Passed[]
Player 132 (Hwang In-ho)
Trivia[]
It's currently unclear if the five finalists shown were the only finalists killed by In-ho or if there were more he killed off screen.
This game is currently the only known game and event so far in the 28th Squid Game.
Player ?53, who was last killed, survived the longest out of the other finalists who were killed during this game.
No known female players participated in this game, possibly because the fifth game was a physical game so only male players passed.
The players eliminated in this interlude are the firsts characters (chronologically) whose corpse were shown.
It's possible that Player 132 was going against a group of players that were part of the same alliance who were going to target him specifically in the final game.
There is a chance there were 10 finalists, based on the dormitory's semiheretical bed placement.