Title: Final Game Manager
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Final_Game_Manager
--------------------------------------------------
Final Game Manager






Name
Unknown


Relationships
Oh Il-nam † (boss)Hwang In-ho (superior)Masked Officer † (possible superior)Cho Sang-woo † (attempted victim)


Affiliation
Squid GamesPink Guards33rd Squid Game


Occupation
Manager


Fate

Status
Unknown



Physical Description

Gender
Male



Appearances




Only appearance




One Lucky Day







That would be referring to the player's death. And with that, let the game begin.
The Final Game Manager explaining the finalists will have to kill each other during Squid Game. in One Lucky Day
This unnamed Manager was the manager in charge of overseeing the final game of the 33rd Squid Game. He is about to execute Cho Sang-woo when Seong Gi-hun suddenly calls for the game to be terminated.

Fate[]
His fate currently remains unknown. It's possible he continued his job as a Manager, meaning it's also possible he died during the Rebellion.

Quotes[]
Player 218 and Player 456. Welcome to the final game. Before we begin, we'll flip a coin to decide who plays offence or defence. Please choose a shape, triangle or square.
The manager letting Seong Gi-hun and Cho Sang-woo decide who takes what role during the final game in One Lucky DayFor the final game, you'll both be playing Squid Game. Let me explain the rules of Squid Game. 1. The attacker must enter the squid-shaped court, run past the defence, and then tap the area inside the squid's head with his foot to secure the win. 2. The defender must block the attacker's advance, and force them outside the courts bounds in order to win. 3. If a situation arises in which either player is unable to continue playing the game, the last one standing will be the winner.
The manager explaining the rules of Squid Game to the finalists in One Lucky DayPlayer 456 wants to stop the game.
The manager explaining what Seong Gi-hun plans to do during the final game to Hwang In-ho and The VIPS in One Lucky Day