Title: Flying Stone Fighter
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Flying_Stone_Fighter
--------------------------------------------------
Fortnite is an massive online multiplayer game, developed by Epic Games, that released on July 25th, 2017.
In June of 2025, Squid Games collaborated with Epic Games to bring an abundance of licensed content from the series into Fortnite.
It is currently available on Windows, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X|S, Nintendo Switch, Nintendo Switch 2, Android, and iOS. The game is available for cloud streaming on GeForce NOW, Amazon Luna, or Xbox Cloud Gaming. The game currently runs on Unreal Engine 5.6 as of version v33.00.

Contents

1 Squid Game Collaboration

1.1 Buildup
1.2 Collaboration

1.2.1 Squid Grounds
1.2.2 Islands

1.2.2.1 ISLAND ESCAPE [SQUID GAME] by EPICLABS


1.2.3 Cosmetics

1.2.3.1 Outfits






2 Gallery

2.1 Cosmetics

2.1.1 Outfits
2.1.2 Back Blings
2.1.3 Emotes, Emoticons, and Sprays.
2.1.4 Other Cosmetics


2.2 Promotional


3 Trivia
4 References


Squid Game Collaboration[]
Buildup[]
From June 2nd to 5th, Epic Games held a conference on the future of Fortnite Creative Mode and UEFN (Their "Create Your Own" style sub-game), during the panels, multiple IPs being introduced to both Creative and UEFN, revealing that Squid Game would have it's own place in this lineup along with other franchises such as Avatar: The Last Airbender and Star Wars.
On June 3rd, Fortnite's official X account (Formerly Twitter) posted a photo showing a card similar to those used for invitations with the face of Peely next to the square, taglined by "You're invited! We're dying for you to join us."[1]
June 18th, at Squid Game 3's red carpet premiere in New York; a life sized costume of Peely dressed in the player's jumpsuits walked and posed on the carpet with the number 037 and an O patch.
Fortnite's various social media accounts would continue to post various teasers such as a Dalgona with the shape of a Supply Llama, and a short video of a Pink Manager Guard getting a Victory Royale[2] on one of the monitor panels within the control room leading up to the release of the update.

Collaboration[]
On June 27th, coinciding with Season 3's release date, Fortnite released an abundance of cosmetics, features, items, and quests,

Squid Grounds[]
     Squid Ground's Playlist Icon  
This update introduced the new Squid Grounds island in Fortnite: Reload, it is the latest island to be introduced to the Reload map pool and the first limited time Island. Quests were added exclusive to this map that offers XP to progress any of the four passes.
With this update, Creative and UEFN were updated with Squid Games map templates, exclusive items, devices, and structures. All of these features were exclusive to their own sub-section of Creative.
This map features 10 unique locations inspired by Squid Game, consisting of Affluent Arrivals, Costly Condos, Designer Docks, Hectic Hedges, Manager's Meals, Phoney Crossroads, Player's Power, Red Greens, Square Meals, and The Labyrinth. Along with a miniature version of the dorms, which can be found within the mini island of which you and other players spawn before landing onto the main island.

     Squid Ground's Island  
Most of which consist of underground Games, that if succeeded, reward you with valuable loot.
A tournament was also held on the 25th to compete in Fortnite: Reload Slurp Rush to earn cosmetics by gaining points. 

Islands[]
ISLAND ESCAPE [SQUID GAME] by EPICLABS[]
5127-5736-9581
Outlast the Guards. Betray your Friends. Escape the Island! 🏝️ Fight and Compete in deadly minigames in the OFFICIAL Squid Game experience! 
🏝️ Escape the Island as a CONTESTANT.
🔫 Eliminate Contestants as a GUARD.
🎮 Compete in Minigames to Earn better LOOT.
💰 SPEND your prize money on masks and trails.
😈 BETRAY teammates to take ALL the winnings.
🎭 The VIPs are watching... entertain them.

Cosmetics[]
This update brought multiple Squid Games themed cosmetics with it, inspired by characters, objects, games and moments from the series. They are all under "The Games" Set.
Coinciding with the update's release, digital drops from Twitch went live, awarding players with cosmetics.

Outfits[]
The Games set consists of 12 outfits, players can choose their number from 1 to 456; as well as their voting patches. Guards can choose the symbol on their masks; along with the Games Manager. They were released on June 26th.
On August 19th, Fortnite announced the release of a Front Man Outfit.[3]
On August 26th, the Front Man outfit became purchasable, along with a backbling, pickaxe, and emote.

Gallery[]
Cosmetics[]
Outfits[]
Ddakji Defender, modeled after Seong Gi-hun, aka player 456.Dalgona Destroyer Outfit.Marble Maven 29 - Outfit - Fortnite.webpMarble Maven Outfit.Tug of War Titan Outfit.Green Light Guardian Outfit.Glass Bridge Survivor, modeled after Kang Sae-byeok, aka Player 067,Pentathlon Perfector Outfit.Jegi Juggler Outfit.Flying Stone Fighter Outfit.Gong-gi Great Outfit.Games Guard Outfit.Games Manager Outfit.Front Man Outfit.
Back Blings[]
Delicious Dalgona Back Bling, Circle edit style.Delicious Dalgona Back Bling, Triangle edit style.Delicious Dalgona Back Bling, Star edit style.Delicious Dalgona Back Bling, Umbrella edit style.Ddakji Box Back Bling.Loot Piggy Back Bling.
Emotes, Emoticons, and Sprays.[]
Lil' Prized Piggy Bank Emote.Ddakji Flip Animated Emoticon.Ditto, sprite sheet.Cuddly Games Spray, (Fusion of Young-Hee and Cuddle Team Leader)Guarded Games Spray. (Workers and Masked Officer)Masterful Stare Spray. (Front Man)Mingle Game Dance Emote.
Other Cosmetics[]
Squid Shapes Wrap.Red Light, Green Light Loading Screen.Young-Hee Team Leader Banner.Perilous Gift Pickaxe
Promotional[]
Business Card for the Squid Games, with the face of Peely next to the shapes.A Dalgona, with the shape of a Supply Llama.Squid Grounds Map Promo.The Labrynth Promo.Red Greens Promo.Square Meals Promo.New Items Promo.Squid Grounds Cup Promo.Squid Bundle Promo.Squid Accessories Bundle Promo.Squid Grounds Twitch Drops Promo.Front Man Outfit Teaser.
Trivia[]
The Mingle Dance was considered as an Emote for the set, but not released with the first wave.
The Emote was later released with the Front Man wave,
If all games at Square Meals are completed, the Golden Llama Bank (Squid Game's famous gold piggy bank but shaped as a Supply Llama) will be available to open, giving a randomized mythic weapon or utility as well as two Epic to Legendary weapons.
Glass Bridge Survivor(or Kang Sae-byeok), the Front Man, Games Manager and Games Guard later appeared in the Zero Hour live event on November 29th, 2025, among many other IPs in the battle against The Swarm and the Dark Presence.
References[]

↑ https://x.com/Fortnite/status/1929912238745260186

↑ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kMLS3uku2Cw

↑ https://x.com/Fortnite/status/1957883009077768592