Title: Foreshadowing in Squid Game
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Foreshadowing_in_Squid_Game
--------------------------------------------------
Season 1[]
"Red Light, Green Light"

Player 124 and Player 333 are seen panicking together during the initial chaos, it looked like 124 hugged 333 at her back. However, once Season 2 released, 124 and 333 in S3 actually appeared to be deadly duos
Player 333 (season 1) and Player 246 (season 1) have the same icon in season 1. Then Player 333 (season 2/3) and Player 246 (season 2/3) became main characters in Season 2/3.
When Gi-hun's mother asked Seong Gi-hun to buy a birthday present for his daughter, but he ended up stealing money and went horse betting instead. He bet on horse 6 to win and horse 8 to come in second. During the race, he actually got it right with horse 6 taking first place and horse 8 coming in right behind. If we take a closer look, we also see horse 7 in third place, but it ends up lagging behind. Now here’s where it gets crazy, these horses actually match the last digits of the player’s number. Kang Sae-byeok (Player 067) lagged behind in third place like horse 7. Cho Sang-woo (Player 218) comes second like horse 8, and Seong Gi-hun (Player 456) wins just like horse 6.
When Gi-hun gives a gift to his daughter, the box is black and has a ribbon. Exactly like the ones use in the games to store the bodies of eliminated players.
"Hell"

Seong Gi-hun swears he won't ask Kang Sae-byeok for his money back on his mother's life but right after she cuts the rope from his hands, he breaks his promise and asks for the money. This moment foreshadows what happens in One Lucky Day when Gi-hun finds his mother dead after return home.
Jang Deok-su killed others and jumped off a bridge. Then, he was killed by jumping off a bridgeshot.
Kang Sae-byeok wounded Park Man-cheol and threatened to stab his throat with a knife. Then, she got wounded and stabbed in the throat with a knife by Cho Sang-woo.
Ali Abdul took money from Factory owner and ran. Then, he got taken marbles from Cho Sang-woo.
Cho Sang-woo tried to unalive himself in a suit, drenched. Then he unalived himself in a suit, drenched.
"A Fair World"

When Jun-ho is on the island, he threatens a guard, believing they harmed his brother. He shoots him and the guard falls into the water. This scene seems like foreshadow, because in Front Man, when In-ho shoots Jun-ho, the exact same thing happens
Season 2[]
"O X"

After the second round of Mingle when Seon-nyeo's betrayed, she evilly stares at Kim Young-mi. Since Young-mi died shortly after, some fans speculate that Seon-nyeo already knew her fate.
Seon-nyeo stated to Cho Hyun-ju's team that they would all die facing each other. Cho Hyun-ju and Park Yong-sik were eliminated while facing the other members of their group.
In the final round of Mingle, when players are instructed to form a group of two. By then, Hwang In-ho paired up with Park Jung-bae, Jang Geum-ja paired up with Park Yong-sik, Seon-nyeo paired up with Park Mi-hwa and Seong Gi-hun paired up with Kang Dae-ho. It is a foreshadowing reference by the creator by whom they are going to kill at the end of the season (e.g. Jang Geum-ja almost killed Park Yong-sik in '"The Starry Night", Seon-nyeo betrayed her team including Mi-hwa resulting in their death, and the other characters killed their partner.
"Friend or Foe"

Kim Gi-min, Lee Seung-won and Kim Yun-tae were one of the named character in the credits while having a background role in Season 2. Then in Season 3, they all become main characters.
Season 3[]
"The Starry Night"

In the room where Park Yong-sik is killed by his mother, white butterflies can be seen on the wall. In Korean superstition. If a white butterfly enters your home in spring, a family member will die. This hidden detail forshadows that someone in the room will be killed by someone from their own family.
After being locked out by Im Jeong-dae, Seon-nyeo called on the gods break his skull, shatter his spine and pulverize all his organs. This all occurred when he was eliminated in Sky Squid Game.