Title: Friend or Foe
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Friend_or_Foe
--------------------------------------------------
Season Two


Bread and Lottery

Halloween Party

001

Six Legs

One More Game

O X

Friend or Foe




Friend or Foe





							Title
							
						



							Episode
							
						






















Season
Episode
Overall




2
7
16





Episode Information

Duration
60 minutes


Air Date
December 26, 2024


Writer
Hwang Dong-hyuk


Director
Hwang Dong-hyuk




Episode Guide


Previous
Next




"O X"
"Keys and Knives"





Friend or Foe (친구와 적 Chinguwa Jeok?) is the 7th and final episode in Season 2 of the Netflix TV series Squid Game. It is the 16th episode of the series overall.

Contents

1 Synopsis
2 Plot
3 Cast

3.1 Starring
3.2 Recurring actors
3.3 Guest actors


4 Deaths
5 Trivia
6 References


Synopsis[]
The remaining players strategize on how to survive the night. Gi-hun proposes a risky plan - but he will need trustworthy allies to carry it out.

—Official Netflix synopsis
Plot[]
In the Bathroom fight, Thanos strangles Lee Myung-gi to kill him, but then Myung-gi stabs Thanos in the throat with his dinner fork, causing him a severe hemorrhage and making him let Myung-gi go. Then Myung-gi stabs him in the neck, Thanos falls to the ground and begins to bleed to death, freeing Myung-gi, Park Min-su and Kim Jun-hee from Thanos forever. Myung-gi frees himself from his attacker and crawls to a cubicle, but Thanos uses his last strength to grab his ankle, but Myung-gi manages to free himself and Thanos finally falls dead. Myung-gi hides in the cubicle to recover and he gets shocked for having killed Thanos. The fight becomes increasingly brutal and bloody, Player 401 is killed and players beat each other to death. Nam-gyu and Player 331 fight and 331 knocks Nam-gyu down with a punch, Nam-gyu sees Thanos' corpse and tries to take a drug, but 331 kicks him, Nam-gyu grabs the fork and stabs 331 to death. Player 268 is killed by Player 067 and Player 299 is thrown against a mirror and beaten to death by Player 145. Outside the bathroom, the Pink Guards hear everything what's happening inside and act as if nothing is happening.
In the Dormitory, it's revealed that the fight claimed the lives of 5 players (leaving 95 player's alive) and it's announced that the eliminated players are Players 230, 268, 299, 331 and 401. The players are surprised and confused by the announcement while Min-su hides in fear and the Prize Money increases to ₩36,100,000,000 (being ₩380,000,000 for each player). Everyone wonders what happened and Seong Gi-hun realizes that the riot is near.
The survivors of the fight arrive and Nam-gyu starts to lie, stating that Team O was in the bathroom and Team X tried to kill them, but then Kwon Byeong-su reveals that the coward of Nam-gyu is lying and tells the truth, which is that Team O was who started the fight against Team X and that they threatened Min-su to force him to join them to win the vote. Player 192 states that Team X killed Thanos first and tried to kill them to win the vote, 145 states that Team O also killed some of them and asks if they expected them to let them kill them all. Both teams begin to argue, blaming the other for the deaths of their teammates until Im Jeong-dae asks which team lost more players and both teams realize that they don't know. Jeong-dae tells Team O to group together for a player count, Byeong-su does the same and asks Team X to group together, Jun-hee sees Myung-gi among the survivors of the fight and she gets worried to see him covered in Thanos' blood.
On the boat, the Drone pilot wakes up in the middle of the stormy night, suffering from nausea from drinking and the motion of the ship, he goes out on deck to vomit and then sees a light coming from one room, the man goes to check and finds Sea Captain Park. The pilot asks Captain Park what he is doing and then he realizes that he is doing something with the drone, Captain Park says that he was looking for something because he couldn't sleep and he found the drone, Captain Park tells the pilot that he's done and to go to sleep, but then the pilot realizes that something is wrong and asks Captain Park for an explanation, but then Park stabs him with a knife. The pilot tries to fight but Park stabs him and throws him overboard. Choi Woo-Seok arrives and asks who is there, then he sees that it is Park and asks him what he is doing there, Park tells him that he couldn't sleep and thought he heard something, Woo-seok mentions that he heard it too, that he heard as if someone was screaming and some thuds, Park tells him that's why he went out to check and then thought it was the waves hitting the deck and points to the messy deck, Woo-seok thinks it makes sense, Park tells him to go back to sleep and leaves, Woo-seok notices that something happened in the room, closes the door and goes to sleep.
In the dormitory, Jeong-dae counts the players of Team O and discovers that there're 47, which means that 3 of them died (Players 230, 268 and 299). Kim Yeong-sam asks him if he is sure, to which Jeong-dae tells him that he counted 3 times, Kim Gi-min (Player 203) asks how many players Team X has and the team wonders how many they're. Byeong-su counts the players of Team X and discovers that there're 48, which means that 2 of them died (Players 331 and 401). Player 400 says that if Team X lost 2 of the 5 dead, Team O lost 3, Se-mi adds that they have the advantage to win the vote and Park Jung-bae adds that it's 48 against 47 and if none of them change their mind, they will win by 1 vote, Team X believes that they have already won and that they will be able to get out of there. Then the Announcer informs that the lights will go out in 30 minutes and asks the players to get ready to sleep, Byeong-su asks Team X that no one changes their minds and tells them that you can win the vote and go home, Team X tells her not to worry, Player 072 adds that they really have to get out of there and the team goes to sleep, but Gi-hun thinks that Team O may plan something.
In the Organ trafficking ring, the operation finally makes progress, organs in good condition have been obtained and the divers leave to deliver them. Soldier 005 informs Masked Officer that the delivery team is on the way, Masked Officer asks about the goods and 005 tells him that they're in top condition, then Masked Officer asks about Kang No-eul, to which 005 tells him that she will no longer be a problem and Masked Officer tells him to keep an eye on her. Masked Officer arrives at the control room and the Managers, Soldiers and Workers are informed to prepare for the Special Game.
In the dormitory, there are 20 minutes left until the lights go out and Gi-hun's team, which includes himself, Hwang In-ho, Park Jung-bae, Kang Dae-ho, Kim Jun-hee, Cho Hyun-ju, Park Yong-sik, Jang Geum-ja, Park Gyeong-seok, Kwon Byeong-su and 145 suspects that Team O is up to something, Gi-hun mentions that he thinks that when the lights go out, Team O will attack Team X, he mentions that when they do it, they will win more votes and also more money, In-ho suggests attacking first and Byeong-su agrees since they have more women and older people, Gi-hun tells them that they can't because that's what the masked men want and suggests going against them. Gi-hun tells them that they are at the upper levels, that Front Man is the leader and if they capture him, they can win, In-ho asks him how to face them since the masked men have guns, to which Gi-hun reveals that he plans for them to take the weapons of the masked men, In-ho believes it is dangerous but Gi-hun believes that it is the best option and explains that when the fight starts, they can take up guns. Gi-hun explains that his plan is for Team O to start fighting Team X, they hide in the shadows and when the guards come in to stop the fight, they will pretend to be dead and when they scan them, they will attack them and take their guns.
With 5 minutes left before the lights go out, the players go to their beds, Nam-gyu is sitting on Thanos' bed and takes out Thanos' Cross (which he took from his corpse), he insults him for always "treating him like an idiot" but at the same time, seems to genuinely miss his friend and takes two drugs. Nam-gyu puts away the Thanos' Cross and takes out the fork, prepared to start killing. Jun-hee tells Myung-gi to hide when the lights go out and not do anything no matter what happens (warning him of the fight because he's the father of her baby and he saved her life several times). Myung-gi tells her yes and Jun-hee tells him to clean Thanos' blood off of himself. Jun-hee leaves and Myung-gi wipes away the blood.
The lights go out and Gi-hun's team carries out his plan; they hide under the bottom beds quietly so they don't catch them and attack them. Team O gets up and attacks Team X, with Nam-gyu and Kim Yeong-sam leading the charge with the rest of Team O following behind. Nam-gyu rushes up a bed and slaughters Player 185, starting the Special Game. Both teams start fighting and some players start dying quickly. Player 348 smashes a bottle in Player 307's face causing the latter to fall off a bed where Player 102 can be seen throwing Player 182 off a platform, who then gets attacked by Player 158. Player 406 attempted to stab Player 358 but failed, and attempted to retreat. However, Player 358 managed to grab Player 406 and stabbed him in the back repeatedly causing him to die. Min-su runs to hide, finds a bottle to defend himself and hides in one of the high beds. Player 315 was then seen chasing Player 183, while Player 056 pushes Player 067 down a bed, causing the latter to fall down some stairs. Amidst the chaos, many Team O members can be seen attacking Team X members, Player 197 takes off his tracksuit and begins to attack Player 056 and snaps his neck. While that is happening Player 134 then jumps off a falling bed. Player 308 can be seen running through beds then collapsing on the floor. She attempted to escape, but Player 158, kills her. Player 308 then stared at Gi-hun lifelessly, startling Gi-hun. 
In a next shot, Kim Gi-min can be seen brutally stabbing Player 094 with a fork repeatedly, with Cho Hyun-ju and Park Gyeong-seok underneath the bed where the murder was occurring. Many Team X members can be seen either running, or getting attacked by a Team O member. Lee Seung-won then attempted to kill Player 359, to which the latter survived the attack. Player 102 was then pushed near a bed onto the floor, and was repeatedly stabbed to death by Player 296, right at the bed where Jang Geum-ja, Park Yong-sik, and Kim Jun-hee were hiding under. Gi-hun's team remains hidden and waits for the fight to end. The fight becomes increasingly bloody and brutal and claims the lives of several players, where Nam-gyu attacks Se-mi and corners her. Min-su sees them from a high bed and throws the bottle to help Se-mi, the bottle falls to the floor, breaks and Min-su quickly hides, Nam-gyu looks up and gets distracted, giving Se-mi the opportunity to grab the broken bottle and fight defend herself. Se-mi attacks Nam-gyu, throws him back and Nam-gyu drops the fork. Se-mi was about to have the upper advantage, but Player 182 and Player 377 collided into Se-mi, causing her to fall onto the ground. Se-mi tries to fight but Nam-gyu jumps on her, stabs her in the neck with the broken bottle. Se-mi can be heard screaming in pain while bleeding to death, much to Min-su's horror. Min-su then started crying and having a mental breakdown on his bed.
The Masked Officer tells the Pink Guards to come in to stop the fight. The lights turn on, a group of guards come in and stop the fight. Player 080, 348, 418, Im Jeong-dae and Kim Yeong-sam were forced to stop fighting Gi-hun's team continues with the plan, some stay hidden while others pretend to be dead and the soldiers scan the identities of the dead players, then Gi-hun's team attacks the soldiers, they take away their MP5A3 submachine guns and fight against them. Gi-hun's team manages to take their guns from several soldiers and kill them. The Masked Officer panics and tells the managers that the guards must retreat and close the gate. The Announcer tells the guards to retreat and the soldiers run as the gate closes, some are killed and others manage to escape, the manager tries to escape but the gate closes and he gets trapped, then Gi-hun tells his team to stop shooting and they take the manager prisoner.
Byeong-su, enraged at the "O" players for killing "X" players, moves to gun down several of them, but Gi-hun stops him and reminds him they'd be no different from the masked men. Hyun-ju suggests they gather the dead soldiers' guns and ammunition, then destroys the dormitory cameras to hide themselves from the control room. Gi-hun delivers a speech to the gathered survivors and states his plan to fight their way to the headquarters and end the event, imploring anyone with experience handling guns to step forward. Park Yong-sik wanted to help in Gi-hun's Revolt but he was held back by his mother who didn't let him join because she was afraid he would die in the rebellion. Lee Myung-gi was also willing to do so but Jun-hee warns him not to. When the players all hesitate Jung-bae sympathizes with them but reminds them it may be the last opportunity for everybody to escape and go home, which convinces Player 015 to fight. A few others also step up to join including Players 072, 206, and 324 bringing Gi-hun's group to twelve fighters. Noticing the others struggling, Hyun-ju steps forward and instructs the rebels on how to operate the MP5A3, revealing to a questioning Gyeong-seok that she formerly served as a Sergeant First Class in Korean Special Forces.
Gi-hun forces the captured manager to remove his mask, with Jung-bae expressing disbelief at his young age. Smashing through the side door to the bathrooms, the group exits the dorms. Min-su gets down from the bunk's and breaks down at Se-mi's corpse. Gi-hun's group proceed into the massive multi-colored stairwell, where they are attacked by several soldiers from a higher level after shooting out the speaker. When the shooting begins it scares Seon-nyeo while the others look op. Hyun-ju rushes forward and manages to kill three soldiers from a vantage point, forcing those remaining to retreat while Dae-ho cowers due to the shooting. The players continue to push forward, unaware of a larger group waiting to ambush them. They reach the entrance to the complex's management area, where the captured manager states he needs his mask to pass through the security, which he retrieves. As he looks up however, the manager sees In-ho and appears to recognize him, but is then shot in the head by the ambush group, pinning the players down. The soldiers fire at them from across the towering stairwell gap, killing 072 when he fails to reach cover.
Gi-hun orders the others to stay behind and buy time while he and Jung-bae head to the control room, which Young-il questions but complies with. The two find a security door that they pass by using the dead manager's mask, leaving a spare MP5 to hold the door open. They are attacked by two soldiers, but manage to kill them by causing a diversion with the manager's mask, looting them of their ammo before moving on. Seeing them advance, the Officer orders a large group of soldiers to defend the control room, which Gi-hun and Jung-bae have almost reached.
Back in the stairwell, the other rebelling players are locked in a shootout with the soldiers. Byeong-su manages to kill another guard and advises Kang Dae-ho to not waste his ammunition after wildly spraying fire, as he is clearly suffering from a PTSD episode and beginning to crack from the intensity of the fighting. Byeong-su suggests to Young-il that they meet up with Gi-hun, as they are getting nowhere being bogged down in a firefight, but In-ho fears they will get surrounded if they move forward with no plan and tells them to hold their ground. 206 is suddenly shot and killed by a soldier flanking the group, but Gyeong-seok and Hyun-ju manage to kill him and another flanker. The extended gunfight begins to wear down on the players, as they all discover their ammunition running dangerously low, while a pinned-down Gi-hun and Jung-bae run into the same problem as they radio In-ho for backup. Gi-hun reminds them that the soldiers they killed in the dorms have extra magazines in their pockets, which Young-il orders someone else to retrieve while he, Byeong-su, and 015 push on to reinforce Gi-hun. Hyun-ju prepares to retrieve the magazines, but Dae-ho steps up and volunteers to go instead, being out of ammo anyway. Hyun-ju gives him a loaded MP5 and sends him back after the others cover him, advising him to follow the destroyed cameras to avoid being seen.
Gi-hun runs out of ammo and bravely runs to a guard's corpse to grab more magazines, narrowly avoiding being gunned down, though he suffers a graze on his arm. Young-il, Byeong-su, and 015 arrive to assist, with him suggesting to Gi-hun they attempt to flank the soldiers guarding the control room entrance. Gi-hun agrees and hands him a spare magazine, which Young-il hesitates to take, but does so anyway, leading the others to outflank the guards. Back in the dorms, Dae-ho shakily arrives and starts to gather the dead soldiers' magazines with assistance from Geum-ja, Jun-hee and Yong-sik, managing to gather more than a dozen. As he leaves the dorms however, the distant gunfire from the shootout frightens him, causing him to become unresponsive when Hyun-ju radios him for help, before backing away in defeat from his PTSD. Hearing nothing, Hyun-ju volunteers to run back and grab the magazines, assuming Dae-ho had been killed.
Young-il and the others get behind the soldiers near the control and prepare to ambush them, but turns on the players, shooting Byeong-su and 015. Young-il then radios Gi-hun and fakes his own death, using 015's dying noises through the radio to reinforce the ruse, before executing the injured player with a headshot. Revealing his treachery, Young-il changes his radio's channel and orders the guards to start wrapping things up; in reality he is Hwang In-ho, the Front Man, and had entered the games presumably in an effort to stop any rebellion attempts by Gi-hun.
In the dorms, Hyun-ju arrives to find a shell-shocked Dae-ho, who profusely apologizes for abandoning them. As she goes to leave, a large group of soldiers arrive to quell any further rebellion, who she prepared to fight off with the new ammo until Geum-ja stopped her, knowing she would get herself killed in the effort. The surviving rebelling players in the stairwell run out of ammunition, as the soldiers began closing in from both directions to surround them. Injured and left with one bullet, 324 raises his gun to his head and, after protests from Gyeong-seok, kills himself to prevent capture. 145 then suggests they surrender, but he is shot in the chest after dropping his weapon. Gyeong-seok is backed up by another soldier and presumably shot and killed too (though it is later found out he was shot non-fatally by Kang No-eul).
Gi-hun and Jung-bae also run out of ammo and surrender, held at gunpoint by soldiers. The Front Man then arrives with the Officer, questioning Gi-hun if he had fun "playing the hero", before raising his M1911 to execute him. Just as Gi-hun accepts his fate with a furious gaze, the Front Man tells him to look at the consequences of his rebellion, before turning his gun to Jung-bae. The two friends share one last look, then the Front Man kills him with a shot to the chest, much to Gi-hun's heart-breaking anguish as two soldiers barely restrain him from lunging at his adversary. Following this failed riot attempt, the games continue as they had before. 
In the mid-credits scene, Im Jeong-dae, Player 096, Kim Yun-tae, and other remaining O players enter a night and day themed room, with a re-dressed Young-hee standing opposite Cheol-su and a railway light turning green.

Cast[]
Starring[]
Lee Jung-jae as Seong Gi-hun (Player 456)
Lee Byung-hun as the Front Man/Hwang In-ho (Player 001)
Wi Ha-joon as Hwang Jun-ho
Yim Si-wan as Lee Myung-gi (Player 333)
Kang Ha-neul as Kang Dae-ho (Player 388)
Lee Seo-hwan as Park Jung-bae (Player 390) (K.I.A.)
Park Gyu-young as Kang No-eul (Guard 11)
Park Sung-hoon as Cho Hyun-ju (Player 120)
Lee Jin-wook as Park Gyeong-seok (Player 246)
Yang Dong-geun as Park Yong-sik (Player 007)
Kang Ae-shim as Jang Geum-ja (Player 149)
Jo Yu-ri as Kim Jun-hee (Player 222)
Recurring actors[]

Choi Seung-hyun as Choi Su-bong/Thanos (Player 230) (K.I.A.)
Roh Jae-won as Nam-gyu (Player 124)
Lee David as Park Min-su (Player 125)
Won Ji-an as Se-mi (Player 380) (K.I.A.)
Song Young-chang as Im Jeong-dae (Player 100)
Lee Sung-woo as Kim Yeong-sam (Player 226)
Choi Gwi-hwa as Kim Gi-min (Player 203)
Guest actors[]
Baek Seung-chul as Kwon Byeong-su (Player 047)
Ha Soo-ho as Player 145
Lee Ha-nee as Player 015
Hong Seung-gyun as Player 324
Han Dong-won as Player 072
Yoo Dok-hyun as Player 206
Lee Kyu-hoi as Kim Yun-tae (Player 353)
Deaths[]
Thanos (Stabbed in the neck with a fork by Lee Myung-gi during the Bathroom fight)
Player 401 (Beaten to death by Player 299 during the Bathroom fight)
Player 268 (Beaten to death by Player 067 during the Bathroom fight)
Player 331 (Stabbed repeatedly in the chest with a fork by Nam-gyu during the Bathroom fight)
Player 299 (Beaten to death by Player 145 during the Bathroom fight)
Drone Pilot (Stabbed with screwdriver by Park Yeong-gil and thrown overboard)
Player 185 (Stabbed repeatedly in the neck with a fork by Nam-gyu during the Special Game)
Player 182 (Stabbed in the neck with a fork and thrown off the bunkbeds by Player 102 during the Special Game.)
Player 307 (Smashed on the head with a glass bottle and suffocated to death with a pillow by Player 348 during the Special Game.)
Player 431 (Stabbed to death by an unknown O voter during the Special Game.)
Player 259 (Stabbed to death by an unknown O voter during the Special Game.)
Player 067 (Thrown down a flight of stairs and stabbed repeatedly with a fork by Player 056 during the Special Game.)
Player 056 (Neck snapped with a tracksuit by Player 197 during the Special Game.)
Player 370 (Stabbed repeatedly with a fork by Player 024 during the Special Game.)
Player 308 (Stabbed repeatedly with a broken glass bottle by Player 158 during the Special Game.)
Player 094 (Stabbed repeatedly in the neck with a fork by Kim Gi-min during the Special Game.)
Player 102 (Stabbed repeatedly with a fork by Player 296 during the Special Game.)
Se-mi (Stabbed to death with a broken glass bottle by Nam-gyu during the Special Game.)
Player 297 (Stabbed and beaten with a metal bedframe to death by Player 154 during the Special Game.)
Player 376 (Stabbed to death by an unknown X voter during the Special Game.)
Player 219 (Stabbed to death by an unknown X voter during the Special Game.)
Player 366 (Stabbed to death by an unknown X voter during the Special Game.)
Player 267 (Stabbed to death by an unknown O voter during the Special Game.)
Player 320 (Stabbed to death by an unknown O voter during the Special Game.)
Player 116 (Stabbed to death by an unknown X voter during the Special Game.)
Player 358 (Stabbed to death by an unknown X voter during the Special Game.)
Player 220 (Stabbed by Player 358 and beaten to death by Player 348 during the Special Game.)
Player 143 (Stabbed to death by an unknown O voter during the Special Game.)
Player 158 (Stabbed to death by an unknown X voter during the Special Game.)
Player 113 (Stabbed to death by Player 296 during the Special Game.)
Player 140 (Stabbed to death by an unknown O voter during the Special Game.)
Player 348 (Stabbed to death by Player 080 during the Special Game.)
27 unnamed soldiers and 8 unnamed managers (shot and killed during the Rebellion)
Player 072 (Shot repeatedly in the chest by a soldier during the Rebellion)
Player 206 (Shot repeatedly in the chest by a soldier during the Rebellion)
Kwon Byeong-su (Shot repeatedly in the back by Hwang In-ho during the Rebellion)
Player 015 (Shot in the chest and head by Hwang In-ho during the Rebellion)
Player 324 (Committed suicide by shooting himself in the head during the Rebellion)
Player 145 (Shot in the chest by Kang No-eul during the Rebellion)
8 unnamed managers (shot and killed during the Rebellion)
Park Jung-bae (Shot in the head by Hwang In-ho during the Rebellion)
Trivia[]
    The Cameraman in the episode "Friend or Foe"  
This episode features the Bathroom Fight, the Special Game, and the Rebellion.
According to fans, Nam-gyu shows to be very intimidatory, brutal and dangerous during this episode, because of the drugs he took after Thanos' death.
In the credits, there's a small teaser of the Jump Rope game introducing Cheol-su, a male doll in the similar style of Young-hee, it also mainly shows O players entering the arena. Jump Rope was one of the games featured in the third season [1] however the railroad track light was not featured as heavily as teased.
On January 8, 2025, eagle-eyed fans spotted a major filming blunder in this episode where the camera changes angle to show Gi-hun and his allies opening fire on the guards. In the background, at approximately 22:39, a cameraman can clearly be seen at the top right of the screen.[2] However, this was later fixed and the cameraman is no longer there.
While discussing the plan Gi-hun mentions they should be fighting the people up there as in the people running the game and the VIPs. All the characters in the scene look up at the camera above them. This is considered by fans to be a jab at the viewers by comparing them to the VIPs themselves.
This is because the VIPs pay money to watch the games while we as the viewers pay a Netflix subscription in order to watch the show.
Just before Special Game begins, a countdown to lights out is heard. During this, the main characters are shown one by one. The order they are shown in follow the same order of events that got the characters killed. First, Jung-bae, Gyeong-seok, and In-ho are shown. All were eliminated in the revolt. Next, Hyun-ju, Yong-sik, Geum-ja and Dae-ho are shown, with all dying in Hide and Seek (aside from Geum-ja who died after the game). Then Jun-hee, Myung-gi, and Gi-hun are shown, with Jun-hee dying in Jump Rope, and Myung-gi and Gi-hun dying in Sky Squid Game.
References[]

↑ "We Filmed Them Back to Back": 'Squid Game' Season 3 Gets a Young-hee Sized Update - Collider

↑ Squid Game fans joke ‘someone is getting fired’ after spotting major blunder at key moment in season 2 finale - The Independent


Squid GameSeason 1
Red Light, Green Light
Hell
The Man with the Umbrella
Stick to the Team
A Fair World
Gganbu
VIPS
Front Man
One Lucky Day
Season 2
Bread and Lottery
Halloween Party
001
Six Legs
One More Game
O X
Friend or Foe
Season 3
Keys and Knives
The Starry Night
It's Not Your Fault
222
⭘△☐
Humans Are...