Title: Game 6
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Game_6
--------------------------------------------------
Games


Red Light, Green Light

Sugar Honeycombs

Tug of War 

 Marbles 

Glass Stepping Stones

Squid Game


This article is about the 6th game in the 33rd Squid Game. For the other uses, see Squid Game (disambiguation)

Squid Game





							Arena
							
						



							Lobby
							
						




















Attendance:
2




Player statistics


Passed:
Eliminated:




1
1





Game Information

Korean
오징어 게임


Game No.
6


Teams?
Yes (divided into 2 groups)


Appears in:
"Red Light, Green Light""One Lucky Day"



Money count

Money won from game:
₩200 million


Total money:
₩45.6 billion




Continuation


Previous
Next




Glass Stepping StonesFinal Dinner (interlude)
Unknown 1st Game; 34th Squid Game (canonically)Il-nam's Last Game (in series)





For the final game, you'll both be playing Squid Game. Let me explain the rules of Squid Game. 1. The attacker must enter the squid-shaped court, run past the defence, and then tap the area inside the squid's head with his foot to secure the win. 2. The defender must block the attacker's advance, and force them outside the courts bounds in order to win. 3. If a situation arises in which either player is unable to continue playing the game, the last one standing will be the winner.
The Final Game Manager explaining the rules of the game. in One Lucky Day
Squid Game (오징어 게임 Ojing-eo Geim?) was the sixth and final game of the 33rd Squid Game. The game involved contestants playing a deadly version of the children's game by the same name.
Two players entered the game; one player; Player 218, was eliminated and killed and the remaining player, Player 456, had survived the round and became the victor of the competition, earning the prize money of ₩45.6 billion. 455 players in total were eliminated. 
The final game was held on June 30, 2020. 

Contents

1 Game Information

1.1 Original Game


2 Gameplay
3 Results
4 Trivia
5 Gallery


Game Information[]
There is an attacker and a defender. The attacker must enter the squid-shaped court, run past the defense and tap the area inside the squid's head with their foot to secure the win. The defender must block the attacker's advance and force them outside of the court's bounds in order to win. If a situation arises, in which either player is unable to continue playing the game, the last one standing will be the winner. Any kind of combat or violence is allowed in the game. 

Original Game[]
Squid (ojingŏ) is played on a squid-like playing field drawn in the ground. The squid consists of two circles, one at the top and one at the bottom. The top circle is intersected by a triangle, while the bottom one is intersected by a square.
Unlike the final game of the show (where only two participants were left, thus modifying the game rules to accommodate to the two-player dynamic), the Squid Game is played in groups - the defense group and the offense group. The defense group is allowed to move freely within the limits of the squid shape, while the offense group remains outside. The offense group is only allowed to move when jumping on one foot.   
If someone from the offense group manages to get inside the limits of the squid, they can start using two feet to move around.
To win the game, the defense must push the offense players out of boundaries while the offense team tries to touch the head of the squid (the triangle) with one foot. The losing team is considered to be "dead". This is taken literally in the final round of the Squid Game.

Gameplay[]
After Cho Sang-woo abandons the original rules, he tries to stab Seong Gi-hun with his knife from the dinner. Gi-hun throws sand in his eyes, and realizes that it is raining. After Sang-woo explains why he killed Kang Sae-byeok, Gi-hun starts to fight Sang-woo, which results in him getting strangled, before he throws Sang-woo's knife and stabs him, with Gi-hun kicking his knife away. Sang-woo, with no protection, decides to use his jacket and uses it as protection from Gi-hun, before they both try to touch each others faces, with Gi-hun almost getting pushed out of the squid. Sang-woo yells, "You bastard!" while throwing his jacket at Gi-hun, then he starts punching him in the face, with Gi-hun fighting hard and punching him back, too. Sang-woo tries to use his jacket to choke him, however Gi-hun escapes out of it. Gi-hun tries everything in his power to keep Sang-woo secured on the ground, by punching him, kicking him. He fights with Sang-woo again, with him finding Gi-hun's knife and using it to stab it in his leg, and the right part of his torso. Now with both of them on the ground, Sang-woo tries to kill Gi-hun again by kicking, and punching him, with splatters of blood coming from Gi-hun's nose and mouth. With Gi-hun, basically done for, Sang-woo talks about this was the same place Red Light, Green Light took place, and how so many people played with us, with all of them being dead except for them. Sang-woo tries to stab Gi-hun in the heart, however this backfired as Gi-hun used his hand to protect him from being killed, with the knife extremely close to his chin. Sang-woo puts all his power into making that knife go more down, however Gi-hun bites his ankle. Gi-hun, bleeding from his nose, goes up to Sang-woo, saying while punching him in the face "It was you that killed them. You… you killed everyone! You killed them. You’re the one who killed them.", referencing to people like Ali Abdul and Kang Sae-byeok being killed by him. Gi-hun pulls the knife out of his hand, and proceeds to stab Sang-woo, however instead placed the knife right next to him, on the face. Gi-hun gets up, and walks to the exit. As the Manager is about to shoot Cho Sang-woo, Gi-hun decides to walk back to Sang-woo, and asks to terminate the games. Gi-hun asks if Sang-woo would go together with him and Sang-woo, saying "Gi-hun, I'm sorry.", stabs the knife into his throat, slurring "My mother, help her." and dying.

Results[]
Seong Gi-hun (Player 456) - won
Cho Sang-woo (Player 218) - eliminated; committed suicide
Trivia[]
There was supposed to be one more player, Kang Sae-byeok (Player 067), but she was murdered by Cho Sang-woo (Player 218) who stabbed her throat before the game started.
This is the only game that doesn't have unnamed players.
The game's location was also where the first game was held, proven by Young-hee's presence in the background and the walls.
There is a window in the room for the VIPs to watch the game.
This is presumably the first time the game made its debut in the 33 years of Squid Games, hinted at one of the VIPs asking what the rules of the game were.
With this, it may also be possible that the sixth game for all 33 years may be different.
This game happened on June 30th of 2020.
This game has the lowest elimination count in the entire show, with only 1 player being eliminated.
It is the only game to reuse a previous arena.
Gallery[]

Games2020
Ddakji
Red Light, Green Light
Sugar Honeycombs
Special Game
Tug of War
Marbles
Glass Stepping Stones
Squid Game
2024
Ddakji
Bread or Lottery
Rock Paper Scissors, Minus One
Russian Roulette
Red Light, Green Light
Six-Legged Pentathlon
Mingle
Bathroom fight
Special Game
Revolt
Hide and Seek
Jump Rope
Sky Squid Game