Title: Game 6 (37th Squid Games)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Game_6_(37th_Squid_Games)
--------------------------------------------------
Games


Red Light, Green Light

Six-Legged Pentathlon

Mingle

Hide and Seek

Jump Rope

Sky Squid Game




Sky Squid Game







Attendance:
9 (2 X; 5 O: 2 /)




Player statistics


Passed:
Eliminated:




1 (/)
8 (2 X; 5 O: 1 /)





Game Information

Game No.
6


Teams?
Optional


Appears in:
"⭘△☐""Humans Are..."



Money count

Money won from game:
₩900 million


Total money:
₩45.6 billion




Continuation


Previous




Jump RopeFinal Dinner (interlude)






In the final game, all of you will get to choose which players will be eliminated. If you can all agree on which three players should be eliminated, the rest of you will make it through and survive the final game.
A Manager giving the Finalists a hint about the final game in "222"
Sky Squid Game (고공 오징어 게임 Gogong Ojingeo Geim?) was the sixth and final game of the 37th Squid Game, and the Squid Games in South Korea as a whole.
9 players (including the baby) participated in this game. 8 players (around 88.8%) were eliminated and only 1 player, Player 222 survived and became the competition winner. No players who had signed their consent form or played all of the previous 5 games survived.
Eliminations include Player 039, Player 100, Player 125, Player 203, Player 333, Player 336, Player 353 and Player 456.
The final game took place on November 7, 2024. 

Contents

1 Game information
2 Plot

2.1 Round 1 - Square tower
2.2 Round 2 - Triangle tower
2.3 Round 3 - Circle tower


3 Participants

3.1 Co-teams:


4 Gameplay
5 Players Eliminated

5.1 Square Tower
5.2 Triangle Tower
5.3 Circle Tower


6 Players Won
7 Trivia
8 Gallery


Game information[]
Due to this game not being a kids game and instead an original game by the series' director, this arena has a completely unique style. The arena is a large and giant rectangular room with completely black walls, and the bottom of the arena has a sandy floor. There's many circular support pillars that also serve as spots for Soldiers to either guard or to eliminate players if the timer runs out. The ceiling is also much higher due to additional walls sloping, and those walls contain giant spotlights that serve as lighting for the game. The most notable part of the arena are the giant concrete platforms, with a yellow square platform, a faded green triangle platform, and a red circle platform. These platforms also contain stairs and lifts, and they all contain a metal pole and a button in the middle to start the rounds. In one of the walls, there's a window where the VIPs can watch the game.
To start the game on each platform, a player must press the previously mentioned button on the platform. When the game starts, players have 15 minutes to eliminate at least 1 player (except the third and final round which was 10 minutes). After the time elapses and the minimum of 1 player has been eliminated, a bridge will extend to the next tower, allowing the remaining players to go to the adjacent tower. If the time runs out and no-one has been eliminated, then all remaining players will be eliminated and nobody wins the prize money. If a player is killed before the button on a platform is pressed - starting the round - the elimination will not count.

Plot[]
Round 1 - Square tower[]
In the first round of the game, players begun on the Square tower. The players must eliminate 1 or more players to continue to the Triangle tower. After a discussion between six players (100, 333, 336, 203, 353 and 039), Lee Myung-gi (Player 333) eliminates Park Min-su (Player 125) by pushing him off of the tower with the pole. The remainder of the time elapses, and the first round concludes. A bridge to the triangle shape and the next round appears.

Round 2 - Triangle tower[]
In the second round of the game, players have now reached the triangle tower. Player 100's team vote to eliminate Kim Jun-hee's baby (Player 222) from the game, however they understand that Seong Gi-hun (Player 456) is protecting the baby with no goal of giving up the baby. Therefore, they must be separated or else one of the team members will have to be eliminated on the Circle tower. 
Kim Yun-tae (Player 353) believes that Gi-hun will give up the baby if his life is threatened and as he is about to push both of them off the tower with the metal pole, Seong Gi-hun talks to him, causing him to doubt his team and whether he should push Gi-hun off, as the team whispers behind him. This causes 336  to retract and put down the pole, as he believes that the team could be scheming against him. In order to separate Gi-hun and the baby, Myung-gi proposes an idea. 
In an attempt to separate Players 222 and 456, the Group tie their jackets together and form a harness whilst Player 333 holds the metal pole. Player 336 (Lee Seung-won) tries to lure Gi-hun into the center of the tower - as it would be safer to separate him and the baby - by promising that they had all agreed to draw lots to decide who is eliminated. But after he demands the lots be brung to him, 336 grabs 456 around the waist and 100's team start pulling on the suit harness to pull Gi-hun into the center and separate him from the baby. Gi-hun pulls out Oh Il-nam's dagger, that was given to him by Hwang In-ho (The Front Man) the night before and cuts Player 039's jacket and the entire rope of jackets as a whole. Gi-hun threatens 336 with the knife while behind him, Lee Myung-gi yells at Player 456 to move, which he does, before pushing Player 336 off the tower. Player 333 tells 456 that he is with him, and no longer wishes to be on 100's team. 
Player 333 reveals that the baby is his. The Group are shocked and are disappointed in his betrayal and failure to inform the team sooner. Some participants of the Group do not believe him. 100's team asks to draw lots seriously this time, before 333 says that they’ll betray them and that as he and Gi-hun carry weapons they get to decide who gets eliminated. This causes a predicament amongst 100's team, but Im Jeong-dae proposes a solution. They single out and attack Player 039, claiming to be 'packing a lunchbox'. The idea is that they will beat 039 into submission, drag him over to the Circle tower and throw him off, getting out with 7.6 billion won each. 353 restrains 039 while player 203 repeatedly punches him, before throwing 039 to the ground and breaking his leg. He begins to crawl over to Gi-hun, begging for help before being mostly incapacitated by a powerful kick to the head. Gi-hun declines using a Lunchbox, to the dissatisfaction of the team. 203 instigates a fight, attempting to disarm Gi-hun and kill him, while 353 attempts to take Myung-gi's pole to push him off. 203 and Gi-hun twist around on the ground, but eventually 456 plunges the knife deep into 203's abdomen, killing him. Player 353 attempts to trip Myung-gi and push him off, but 333 maneuvers, leaving 353 closer to the edge before 333 kicks him in the chest, releasing 353's grip on the pole and pushing him off of the tower. Once 353 and 203 have been eliminated, Myung-gi turns to a frightened Im Jeong-dae (Player 100). Player 100 attempts to dissuade 333 and 456 from murdering him and turns to an injured Player 039, suggesting that they could still use the lunchbox to all leave alive, with 11.4 billion won each - his pleas growing more and more desperate the closer Myung-gi approaches to him, offering to give up his extra money, 1.4 billion won to them in return for being allowed to live. Player 333 declines and mentions that they could earn 15.2 billion won with Player 100 dead. 
Without hesitation, Player 333 shoves the metal rod into Player 100, causing him to fall to his death with the pole. During this whole predicament, 039 - The Lunchbox - crawled over to the edge of the tower with suicidal intent. In panic, Myung-gi tries to desperately bargain with him, saying they can talk about this, and that he doesn't have to die. 039 refuses, and throws himself off of the tower. The second round comes to an end and the bridge to the circle shape appears with just 3 players remaining - meaning either Gi-hun, Myung-gi or the baby must die.

Round 3 - Circle tower[]
Myung-gi asks if the baby is okay, potentially as a distraction, before walking over to the Circle pillar and picking up the metal pole. He refuses to allow 456 to cross the bridge onto the final round, telling him to leave the baby on the bridge. Gi-hun tells him that he will sacrifice himself for him and the baby, as he promised Kim Jun-hee that he will let no harm come to the baby. Myung-gi does not believe him, and accuses him of being a scam-artist and a fraud, saying that he's in the games because of people like him. 333 is aware he will have to kill the baby without 456 on the platform, and in a fit of hysteria accuses Gi-hun of having relations with Jun-hee outside of the games, and that the baby isn't his - attempting to convince himself to kill the baby. After a lot of arguing, Gi-hun eventually leaves the baby on the bridge, and backs away to the Triangle tower while 333 picks up the baby and lays it on the Circle. While 333 is distracted, 456 crouches and stealthily retrieves the knife from 203's abdomen, hiding it behind his back. The bridge begins to retract, but halfway through Seong Gi-hun jumps over the gap and lands on the Circle tower, much to Myung-gi's shock.
He quickly picks up the pole, and they begin to fight. 456 starts swinging his knife at 333, but he slams the pole into Gi-hun's side. After a brief scuffle, the pole falls off the tower, leaving 333 disadvantaged - without a weapon, 456 lands a punch on his head. But Myung-gi runs over to the baby, and dangles it over the side of the tower, threatening to drop it. 333 lays down the baby in return for Gi-hun handing over his knife, and 456 begins wrapping his arm with his suit to protect against the imminent stabbing. Myung-gi rushes at Gi-hun, slashing his abdomen before stabbing the knife into his arm, pressing deep to try and push him off. 456 pulls the knife out of his arm, and 333 tries to swing again before missing, plunging both players off the side of the tower. Player 456 dangles from a piece of exposed rebar, while 333 holds onto his jacketed arm. Unfortunately, the suit begins to tear, dropping 333 even lower. Eventually, the suit fully tears and Lee Myung-gi falls to the bottom and is eliminated. 
Player 456 climbs back up, however realizes that button has not been pressed yet, so Player 333's death does not count. Alone with Player 222, Player 456 presses the button and after spending most of his time holding the baby as one last goodbye, he lays it down. Player 456 turns backwards and states, "We are not horses. We are humans. And humans are...". He then falls backwards off the shape and commits an altruistic suicide, allowing Player 222 to survive and be the winner of the game.

Participants[]
Seong Gi-hun (Player 456)
Kim Yun-tae (Player 353)
Lee Seung-won (Player 336)
Lee Myung-gi (Player 333)
Kim Jun-hee's baby (Player 222)
Kim Gi-min (Player 203)
Park Min-su (Player 125)
Im Jeong-dae (Player 100)
Player 039
Co-teams:[]


100's team

Player 039, Im Jeong-dae,  Kim Gi-min,
Lee Myung-gi, Lee Seung-won, Kim Yun-tae.



Player 039, Im Jeong-dae, Kim Gi-min, Kim Yun-tae.


Im Jeong-dae, Kim Gi-min, Kim Yun-tae.


456's team

Player 222, Seong Gi-hun


Player 222, Lee Myung-gi, Seong Gi-hun

Gameplay[]


Round

Number of Remaining Players

Eliminated

Eliminations

Passed

Total Prize (₩45.6 billion divided between survivors)


1

9 (2 X; 5 O: 2 /)

1 (1 X)

Park Min-su (Counted towards Round 1) (1/1 Eliminations)

8 (1 X; 5 O: 2 /)

₩5.7 billion split


2

8 (1 X; 5 O: 2 /)

5 (4 O; 1 /)

Lee Seung-won (Counted towards Round 2) (1/1 Eliminations)
Kim Yun-tae, Im Jeong-dae, and Player 039 (Did not count, as Round 2's elimination quota was already fulfilled) (4/1 Eliminations)
Kim Gi-min (Was not killed by pushing off, and Round 2's elimination quota was already fulfilled)


3 (1 X; 1 O: 1 /)

₩15.2 billion split


3

3 (1 X; 1 O: 1 /)

2 (1 X; 1 O)

Lee Myung-gi (Did not count as Round 3 had not started) (0/1 Eliminations)
Seong Gi-hun (Counted towards Round 3 and player count was 1) (1/1 Eliminations)


1 (1 /)

₩45.6 billion

Players Eliminated[]
      
Square Tower[]
Park Min-su (Player 125) - Pushed off by Lee Myung-gi (Player 333) with the help of metal pipe.
      
Triangle Tower[]
Lee Seung-won (Player 336) - Pushed off by Myung-gi with the help of metal pipe.
Kim Yun-tae (Player 353) - Kicked off by Myung-gi.
Kim Gi-min (Player 203) - Stabbed in heart with Il-nam's dagger to his death by Seong Gi-hun (Player 456)
Im Jeong-dae (Player 100) - Pushed off by Myung-gi  with the help of metal pipe.
Player 039 - Committed suicide by falling off the triangle tower.
      
Circle Tower[]
Lee Myung-gi (Player 333) - Fell to his death after the jacket he was holding on to ripped off.
Seong Gi-hun (Player 456) - Committed suicide by falling off the circle tower to let Jun-hee's baby win.
Players Won[]
      
Kim Jun-hee's baby (Player 222)
Trivia[]
With an elimination rate of 88.8%, this game has the highest death rate percentage among all other games in the series.
If Gi-hun hadn't cut Player 039's jacket and the entire rope of jackets, he would have been dragged to the center, separated from the baby, and Player 100's team's plan would have been carried out and everyone from the alliance would have survived the second round (039, 100, 203, 333, 336, 353).
Player 125 (Park Min-su) is the first finalist to die and the only one to die wearing a jacket, as the others (039 100 203 333 336 353 456) died wearing shirts and no jackets.
Player 100 (Im Jeong-dae) was the only player in this game who failed to fight back against his killer  due to Jeong-dae being old and pathetic.  He was also the last player killed due to his killer's greed.
Player 333 and Player 100 share the same first kanji in their last names. Coincidentally, Player 333 killed Player 100.
When the camera zooms in on Player 100's corpse, you can see for a split second that he's shedding tears. That is because Tobey Maguire Spider-Man put some dirt in his eye.
If you look at the number of deaths in three rounds in ascending order, you get 1 3 2, which indicates the frontman number 132 and also the winner of the 28th squid game.
The Six-Legged Pentathlon and Sky Squid Game are the only games with original names.
Sky Squid Game is somewhat similar to the traditional Squid Game:
Both games are watched by the VIPs from their lounge.
Players would have to push someone out of the game zone (the squid arena in 2020 and platforms in 2024).
Unlike the original game, Squid Game doesn't use objects to track players' progress. Squid Game takes place on the ground, while Sky Squid Game takes place on high ground.
Prior to the game the remaining players were given the hint that only a minimum of three players could possibly be eliminated, and that they would get to decide who that would be. This was to provide incentive to the players to not end the games by vote despite already having accumulated a significant portion of money.
The game arena is probably a cave, you can notice a rock overhang at the top, the unfinished floor and the towers, possibly made of stone cut out of the ground.
This is the only game that isn’t a childhood game and was invented by director Hwang Dong-hyuk.
Some say there is a theory that the Sky Squid Game is a previously used final game because of the fact that the towers are worn out and look heavily rusted; like the elevator
This game takes place at an altitude of approximately 30 meters (100 feet).
This game is tied with Hide and Seek for the most named characters to die, with a total of seven (Park Min-su, Lee Seung-won, Kim Yun-tae. Kim Gi-min, Im Jeong-dae, Lee Myung-gi, and Seong Gi-hun).
This game is also the only game where Workers did not put the eliminated players in the coffin to cremate their body as they were forced to evacuate the island due to Hwang Jun-ho calling the coast guard.
Park Min-su, Lee Seung-won and Im Jeong-dae are the only players that died getting pushed off the platform with a pole, with the pole falling along with them and Seung-won is the only one that the pole didn't fall along with.
The Triangle tower has the most players eliminated at 5 players (Lee Seung-won, Kim Yun-tae, Kim Gi-min, Im Jeong-dae and Player 039).
In spite of being the final game of the 6 games of this edition of the games, all 5 possible first digits are represented with 0 being represented by Player 039, 1 being represented by Im Jeong-dae and Park Min-su, 2 being represented by Kim Gi-min and Kim Jun-hee's baby, 3 being represented by Lee Myung-gi, Lee Seung-won and Kim Yun-tae, and 4 being represented by Seong Gi-hun. The final five players also begin with numbers 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4 (039, Jeong-dae, the baby, Myung-gi, and Gi-hun)
4 out of the 8 adult finalists never made an appearance in the first 3 games (unless you also count extras who used their numbers)
The colors of the tower (Yellow, Blue, Red) are primary colors.
None of the finalists knew Gi-hun or Myung-gi's name. (Reinforced by Im Jeong-dae called Myung-gi Player 333)
Park Min-su, Lee Seung-won and Seong Gi-hun's elimimations were the only ones that were counted for advancement as the other players had either died after 1 player had already died, or died before the button was pressed causing their eliminations to be negated.
This game had the lowest amount of eliminations in the 37th squid game.
It is unknown whether the poles can only be used in their respective towers or can be taken to the next towers though there is a slight probability they can be taken to the next tower.
This was the final game in the whole of Korean Squid Game's history.
While the pillars were never clearly shown until the season actually came out, the little pillars in the VIP room were in the main trailer.
Im Jeong-dae is the only player in this game to be a Hider during Hide-and-Seek, everyone else but the baby were Seekers.
This game is the only Season 3 game to have its first death to not be a major antagonist, as Hide and Seek had Kim Yeong-sam as the first major death while Jump Rope had Nam-gyu as its first major death, with both being notable antagonists. Both Yeong-sam and Nam-gyu also played Paengi/Spinning Top [and this is actually confirmed on screen] in the Six-Legged Pentathlon.
The order in which the Seeker finalists passed in Hide and Seek from first to last is most likely Lee Myung-gi, Lee Seung-won, Kim Gi-min, Player 039, Kim Yun-tae, Park Min-su and Seong Gi-hun. This also means that the last two to pass in Hide and Seek were the only two who voted X in the final vote.
If Player 096 had not attempted to kill Gi-hun in Jump Rope and survived to this game it is possible (assuming the votes still went majority 0) that he would have been the first target in this game: since he previously tried to kill all the other players in Jump Rope, they would likely want revenge. It is unlikely they would be successful though because Player 096 was an extremely skilled fighter.
Excluding the baby, Player 039 is the only participant without a confirmed name, as Kim Gi-min, Lee Seung-won and Kim Yun-tae's were given in the credits. Although credits wise, Player 039 was named as Do Sirak-nam which roughly translates to lunchbox man, hence why he has no name.
At 9 players participating out of 456, just under 2 percent (1 out of 50) of the original 37th Squid Game players made it to this game.
This game has several similarities to the scenes where Thanos gains the Soul Stone in Avengers: Infinity War: -Both sequences involve the direct sacrifice of another to gain power and both involve pushing the sacrifice off a high tower. -Both are set in mysterious and rocky locations. -Both involve a father murdering or considering/attempting to murder his own daughter. -Finally, a character named Thanos appears in both scenes.
It also has a similarity to Greek mythology particularly the relationship of the Titan Kronos to his children the Olympian gods in that it is set in a rocky location, like much of Greece and also involves a parent considering/attemping to murder his own child [and Kronos' first child, Hestia, was a girl like Myung-gi's daughter]. Kronos had also been cursed by his father the sky god Oranauth that Kronos' own children would kill him: just like entering the game set in the sky resulted in the deaths of most players here including the would-be killing parent Myung-gi. There are also [at first] 6 male players on the majority aggressive side like there were six Titan brothers.
This game and Tug of War are the only seen games to involve elevators.
This game includes the youngest-ever finalist [and player] in the baby as well as possibly the oldest finalist ever in Im Jeong-dae/Player 100.
The death of Im Jeong-dae/Player 100 is widely considered one of the best moments of the series.
Gallery[]
The 9 Finalists entering the arenaThe TowersThe Finalists looking at the towersThe finalists heading into the square tower elevator to their deathsThe finalists in the elevatorDitto.The chess pieces.Im Jeong-dae pushing the button.The Timer.Triangle tower massacre.Player 222 being the only icon left.The final time Sky Squid Game is shown before it is destroyed.