Title: Geum-ja
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Geum-ja
--------------------------------------------------
Jang Geum-ja






Name
Jang Geum-ja


Aliases
Player 149 (37th Squid Game)Grandma (할머니 Halmeoni?) (by Kim Jun-hee and Kim Yeong-sam)Granny (할매 Halmae?) (by Player 178)Mrs. Jang (by Kim Young-mi, Seong Gi-hun and Kim Jun-hee)Mrs. Geum-ja (by Kim Young-mi)Nutjob (by VIP John)Ma (by Park Yong-sik)My Mom (by Park Yong-sik)Old Hag (할멈 Halmeom?) (by Seon-nyeo and Kim Yeong-sam)


Family
Park Yong-sik † (son/indirect victim)Unnamed ex-husband †Unnamed mother †


Relationships
Friends/alliesCho Hyun-ju † (close friend; protector)Kim Jun-hee †  (close friend; protected)Kim Young-mi † (friend)Seong Gi-hun † (friend, savior in Mingle)Park Gyeong-seok (friend)Park Jung-bae † (ally)Kang Dae-ho † (ally)Hwang In-ho (ally, savior in Mingle)EnemiesSeon-nyeo † (former teammate; enemy)Kim Yeong-sam † (enemy; attempted killer)Lee Myung-gi † (former ally and savior in Mingle; enemy in Hide and Seek)Player 202 † (enemy)


Affiliation
Squid Games37th Squid GameSeong Gi-hun's teamCho Hyun-ju's teamTeam XHidersSeekers (formerly)


Occupation
Midwife (formerly)


Born
1940s


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
November 5-6, 2024Dormitory, The Island


Cause of death
Committed suicide in the dormitory, due to guilt of stabbing her son by hanging herself



Physical Description

Gender
Female


Eye color
Black


Hair color
Black (graying)



Appearances

Portrayed by
Kang Ae-shim





First appearance
Last appearance




"001"
"It's Not Your Fault"







Voting




Round 1
Round 2
Round 3















Round 3 Tie
Round 4












This mess we're in. Do you still think it's all your fault? No matter how I look at it... Life really is just truly unfair. That's how it works. Bad people don't care. They'll ruin the world, and blame everyone else. Then good people, well, the good ones always blame themselves for every little thing that happens. Ripping their own hearts to shreds. My Yong-sik was like that. He was such a soft kid, and so damn clueless. It was his fault the company he worked for closed. It was his fault he got beaten up by those dirty loan sharks. It was his fault he got scammed at the casino. Even when, a friend he could trust stole from him. He just drank himself under the table, because he still blamed himself. Then there was this one day... I was so sick of it. How weak he was, I just snapped at him. I started yelling, "I pushed you out of me, and this is what I get? You're pathetic. I'll just start telling myself I never had a son. Now get the hell out of my sight, you spineless little piece of shit!" That night after I screamed at him, he took a bunch of pills, and left a note saying he was sorry for being such a failure. As I dragged him out, loaded him to the car, and rushed him to the hospital. I starting praying to God. I swore he let him live, I would do anything really. And even dive head first into a pit of fire, if I had to. And guess how things wound up... in the end... I was the one who killed him. I stood right there and killed him! My only child that I ended his life.
Jang Geum-ja's whole speech in "It's Not Your Fault"

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 148
Player 150







Jang Geum-ja (장금자 Jang Geum-ja?), also known as Player 149, was a participant in the 37th Squid Game. As well as one of the few semifinalists in the competition. The elderly mother of Park Yong-sik, she entered the game in an attempt to win enough money to pay off her son's gambling debts. After reuniting with Yong-sik in the game, she became allies with Cho Hyun-ju and Kim Young-mi, forming a close friendship with the two.

Contents

1 Personality
2 History

2.1 Backstory
2.2 2024
2.3 Fate
2.4 Legacy


3 Kill count
4 Trivia

4.1 Mistakes


5 Behind the scenes
6 Appearances
7 Gallery

7.1 Season 2
7.2 Season 3
7.3 Behind the scenes
7.4 Promotional


8 References


Personality
Listen, I know. You wanted to help us. You were trying to everyone out there. To teach those bad people a lesson, and end this whole thing.
Jang Geum-ja to Seong Gi-hun after the failed rebellion in "The Starry Night"
Introduced as an honest and opinionated woman with a fiery temper, Geum-ja is later shown to be kind and empathetic, shown for instance when she was comforting Kim Jun-hee about her pregnancy and deeply consoling a handcuffed Gi-hun after his failed revolt which killed many such as his best friend. Her top priority is her son, Yong-sik as she states she wouldn't have a reason to live if she were to get out of here without him.

History
Backstory
Dad beat you all the time, but you never fought back or anything. I'll do it.
Park Yong-sik to Jang Geum-ja before the start of Hide and Seek Born sometime in the 1940s, Jang Geum-ja survived the Korean War during her childhood. She got married to an unnamed man and had a son named Park Yong-sik. Her marriage was an unfaithful one, however, as her husband had a steady extramarital affair and was physically abusive towards her.Honey, I've delivered so many children in my neighborhood. I've lost count of exactly how many there were. I knew from the minute I saw the shape of your body and how you carried yourself. I could just see it. And by the looks of it, I'd say you're due pretty soon now. Am I right? And compressing your belly isn't going to help things. You could hurt yourself and your child trying to hide it. It isn't good. That's why you were in pain earlier.
Jang Geum-ja explaining her story to Kim Jun-hee in Six Legs Over the years, Geum-ja helped over a dozen pregnant women deliver their babies in her local neighborhood of Bongcheon-dong. Her son Yong-sik continued to live at home with her as an adult and racked up a significant amount of debt due to his gambling habit. Her husband died at some point before October 2024.
A committed mother, Geum-ja joined the Squid Games in hopes of winning enough money to pay off her son Yong-sik's gambling debt.

2024
Jang Geum-ja wakes up in the Squid Game Dormitory, alongside the other contestants. There she bumps into her son, Yong-sik and scolds him for joining the Squid Game, telling him that she joined to pay off his debts. Yong-sik assures her that she did not need to go that far for him. The pair advance together, and Geum-ja notices Cho Hyun-ju taking her photo, and is shocked by her son's explanation of transgender people, stating she looks unsightly.This is ridiculous. You both need to stop this. Please, that's enough. Everyone, everyone. Think about what we've been through today. We can't let this go on. It's only thanks to this gentleman that any of us still breathing after all that. Listen, I know how much money means to you all. Your lives are worth a whole lot more. Let's finish the vote and get out of here!
Jang Geum-ja to all the Players during the first vote. When they play Red Light, Green Light, both mother and son are amongst the people who don't believe Seong Gi-hun's warnings and sneer at him. But once they see Gi-hun is telling the truth, both follow his instructions and survive. During the game Kim Jun-hee experiences stomach pains and grabs onto Geum-ja, however she is understanding and tells Jun-hee to use her for support. After the game, several players accuse Gi-hun of scaring them and being crazy, but Geum-ja alongside other players stood up for Gi-hun, responding to his critics that they are alive thanks to him. When her turn comes, Geum-ja votes for "X" to stop the games, when Yong-sik's turn comes, he considers voting for "O", but Geum-ja tells him not to do something idiotic, Yong-sik listens to his mother and votes for "X". She approaches Jun-hee and gives her an egg from her meal, revealing she knows Jun-hee is pregnant and the stomach pains are from purposefully compressing her stomach. She tells Jun-hee to come to her if she needs help with the baby, before Yong-sik appears and takes her away.Geum-ja: That young lady, she made it.
Yong-sik: Who?

Geum-ja: That tiny thing in the group that just walked in.
 Geum-ja happy to see Jun-hee alive in One More Game During the second game, "Six-Legged Pentathlon", Jang Geum-ja teams up with her son and attempts to find other members to join them as well. Being rejected by the previous team because of her, she feels like a burden to her son, but Yong-sik keeps her spirits high. Shortly after, they meet and pair up with Hyun-ju and Kim Young-mi, with Seon-nyeo joining afterward. Discussing a plan for the second game, she points out how Seon-nyeo is a skank who keeps looking down on them and for not cooperating with the team. In the Six-Legged Pentathlon, she plays Gonggi. Whilst her attempt failures initially, Yong-sik exchanges encouragement, the same way she did to him before. Their team successfully passes in the nick of time.Listen, I feel like meeting you two here was destiny. Once we're all back and things are how they used to be, maybe you could all come over for dinner? We'll make them some samgyeopsal.
 Geum-ja inviting her teammates for dinner in One More Game At the dormitory, she curiously questions Hyun-ju about why she doesn't like being stared at when playing the Jegi. Hyun-ju explains her insecurity as her procedures aren't done yet. Initially confused, she empathizes with her. When Gi-hun's team enters back, she exclaims joy and waves at them, with Jung-bae waving back upon seeing them pass. She is especially glad to see Jun-hee. Before the second voting phase starts, she warmly and openly invites Young-mi and Hyun-ju to their home to have kimchi and grill pork belly together if they make it out all together, stating how it feels like more than mere coincidence they all met and how close they've become, with even their hometowns being close to each other.
Jang Geum-ja advises her son Yong-sik to not get foolish when before voting, and that with the accumulated prize money, they can combine it to pay off his debt and start a small store. When the voting starts, Yong-sik presses "O", to continue the game, causing Jang Geum-ja to feel betrayed. Greatly upset, her son seeks her forgiveness and understanding, explaining that he can't leave just yet with that accumulated prize money with his mounting debt, stating that they’d harvest his organs if he fails to pay within a month. He insists on continuing and have a fresh start, but Jang Geum-ja points out that if neither of them survives, it wouldn't matter. While it may not matter if she were gone, it would devastate her if it were her son. She also interrogates Hyun-ju about why she chose to continue but doesn't press for an answer, understanding her personal reasons.

Hyun-ju then shares her past, explaining how no one accepted her when she decided to transition, leading to her losing her job, family, and friends. Jang Geum-ja sympathizes with her and asks about her plans after winning the game. Hyun-ju states she'd move to Thailand to finish her transition and live a small, happy life. Yong-sik reassures her and points out that visiting Thailand himself, there are many other people like Hyun-ju there who are beautiful. Hyun-ju happily agrees, with Young-mi adding that she's already beautiful. Jang Geum-ja, states she looks just fine, considering the amount of time they've already spent - Yong-sik then adds how she called her unsightly before, before nearly choking on his milk by his mother for outing her. When I was 60 years old, I started having bladder-control issues. I can't go anywhere without wearing a diaper. And it's not like I could bring them with me when I came here. Are you really just going to let an old woman soil herself in front of you? Hey, so, um, look, young man. Imagine if I was your mother. Oh, boy, you wouldn't treat me like this. The only reason I'm here is to help my son with his debts. Is it too much to ask to pee when I need to? What did I do in my past life to deserve this?! Is...
Jang Geum-ja begging a Soldier to use the bathroom in One More Game Look at you! As handsome as a knight too. Thank you so much.
Geum-ja thanking Park Gyeong-seok for saving both Hyun-ju and Young-mi in Mingle What... She's no shaman. Well, that lady she's just totally insane. Oh, God. Come on, you too.
Geum-ja insulting Seon-nyeo after being threatened by her Here's how I see it. We have the advantage. We've only had these gimbap rolls to eat today. Everyone will be hungry when they wake up tomorrow. And when you're hungry, it makes you feel homesick. That means everyone will want to leave.
Jang Geum-ja to her group during mealtime During the night, Geum-ja needs the toilet, and reassures her son that she can defend herself, revealing she has a knife hidden in her hairpin. As she gets up, she overhears Jun-hee talking to her ally, Gi-hun, about needing the toilet but having nobody to go with. Geum-ja tells her to join her, and the pair go together. After the guards will not let Jun-hee leave, Geum-ja purposefully makes a fuss and pretends to break down crying to force them. As the door opens, Hyun-ju appears and asks to go to the bathroom as well. Geum-ja reassures the others that Hyun-ju is a woman. After Jun-hee spends an abnormal amount of time in her toilet cubicle, Geum-ja checks on her and finds her sobbing due to her fears for the future and the unlikely survival of her and her baby, Geum-ja hugs Jun-hee and reassures her that it will be alright. 
In the third game, "Mingle" Geum-ja sticks with Yong-sik, Hyun-ju and Young-mi, in the first round the number is 10, so they join Gi-hun, Hwang In-ho, Park Jung-bae, Kang Dae-ho and Jun-hee, Hyun-ju grabs Seon-nyeo and the team manage to survive. In the second round the number is 4, Geum-ja, Yong-sik, Hyun-ju and Young-mi decide to go together and abandon Seon-nyeo, enraging her and turning her into their enemy. In the third round the number is 3, Hyun-ju quickly decides to split into pairs and find 1 more person, Geum-ja goes with Yong-sik, but Players 172 and 220 grab Yong-sik and take him with them, Yong-sik tries to break free and go to his mother while she watches in horror, but 172 and 220 drag Yong-sik to Room 15 with them, Geum-ja freezes in horror and resigns herself to dying, but fortunately Gi-hun and In-ho take her with them and all 3 manage to survive. In-ho attempts to provoke Geum-ja by talking about how her son abandons her, but she stands by Yong-sik's moral character. She is relieved to see Hyun-ju and Young-mi survived by the intervention of Park Gyeong-seok, who is nicknamed 'Prince Charming'. Yong-sik is distraught and breaks down upon seeing her, but Geum-ja reassures him that it will be alright and they are both alive. The pair hold hands tightly the fourth round, where the number is 6. Whilst trying to find a room, Young-mi is knocked over by fighting players and is accidentally left behind, Lee Myung-gi runs in and shuts the door. Young-mi is killed, leaving both Geum-ja and Hyun-ju distraught, although Myung-gi points out there was not enough time for her to reach the door, with Jun-hee and Dae-ho defending him. In the fifth round, it is announced that the number is 2, so Yong-sik grabs Geum-ja and they both arrive at a room both surviving the game.Look, sitting here won't bring anyone back from the dead. Let's focus on who's still here. Right, sir? Go on. Try to eat a little. And please drink some water so you don't choke.
Jang Geum-ja to Seong Gi-hun, Cho Hyun-ju, and Park Yong-sik after the failed revolt After mingle the vote ended in a tie which forced her and all other players to remain on the island. In the aftermath of the Bathroom Fight, being close to Gi-hun now, she is warned of Team O's plan to attack X for them to win the revote. Following Gi-hun's advise Geum-ja hides from the fight under the beds with her son and Jun-hee which allowed them to survive another night. When Gi-hun planned a rebellion Yong-sik wanted to help but Geum-ja stopped him fearing for his life. When Dae-ho came back to get more magazines she helped collect them. When Hyun-ju came back to look for Dae-ho after he had a panic attack. Geum-ja stopped Hyun-ju from attacking more guards as she knew it would be in vain and wouldn't be a good way for her to die. Geum-ja was relieved see Gi-hun alive and asked if he was fine after helping him to a bed. Geum-ja along with the rest of the team realised that all other revolt members were killed. When the guards came in for the revote, Geum-ja witnessed Gi-hun demanding to be killed as well while she can only watch sympathising greatly with him. In the revote Geum-ja was shown at the start along with Hyun-ju and Yong-sik where, all three appeared disappointed when Player 448 changed her vote in fear. Geum-ja voted X again, but Team O won the vote making the games continue. After watching Gi-hun strangle Seon-nyeo it was meal time. Then Geum-ja tried to cheer Gi-hun up by giving him some food and telling him he tried doing the right thing, but notices that Gi-hun is not in his right mind. Geum-ja tells everyone that sitting around doing nothing is not going to bring anyone back, so they should focus on who is still alive.Sir, Jun-hee and little girl... they need someone like you. Someone to help them. Listen, sir. I still believe the reason you came back here is to save everyone.
Jang Geum-ja to Seong Gi-hun in It's Not Your Fault In the fourth game, Hide and Seek, she got a Red Ball meaning she would be on the red team, but her son convinced her to switch teams with him, putting her on the blue team. During the game, she allied with Hyun-jun and Jun-hee, and they ran from the red team with the knives together. Geum-ja sees Yong-sik struggling to find a blue team player to kill, though she does not interfere. When the three of them were running, she witnessed Jun-hee fall down the stairs and heavily injured her ankle. While she was attending to her, she witnessed Hyun-ju kill Player 226 in self-defence. Shortly after this, Jun-hee went into labour and they find a closed room. As Hyun-ju is holding the door shut, Geum-ja helps deliver the baby. She instructs Hyun-ju to get away from the door and hold Jun-hee’s hand. The birth was quick and relatively easy. She revealed that the baby was a girl used the hidden knife in her hair accessory to cut the umbilical cord. Then, Player 202 barged into the room and attacked the group. He and Hyun-ju fought in another room. Unbeknownst to Geum-ja, Hyun-ju accidentally found the exit after killing Player 202. Geum-ja is relieved to see Hyun-ju enter the room and tell her and Jun-hee that she found the exit. Unfortunately, before Geum-ja and Jun-hee could even get out, Hyun-ju is stabbed multiple times in the back by Myung-gi, devastating the remaining two. After Myung-gi shuts the door and leaves, Geum-ja took the three necklaces off of Hyun-ju’s neck and her and Jun-hee went to look for the exit. Just as she was finishing putting the keys into the door, she saw Yong-sik in the doorway. He slowly moved to try and kill Jun-hee as he wasn’t able to kill anyone blue team players, but Geum-ja stops him. Yong-sik started crying in fear because he would die. Geum-ja told her son to kill her so he, Jun-hee, and the baby could all survive, but Yong-sik refused. As she yelled at Jun-hee to open the exit, he pushed her out of the way and rushed toward Jun-hee. Yong-sik raised his knife, looked at the baby, and apologized to Jun-hee before trying to kill her. Before he could kill Jun-hee, Geum-ja stabbed Yong-sik with her knife in his back. She sobbed and held Yong-sik in her arms as he was dying. Geum-ja begged the guards to spare him before he was eliminated for not having killed a blue team player.
     Geum-ja thanking both In-ho and Gi-hun for saving her life.  
Fate
I don't know how I got here at this old age. Did I live the wrong life? Is that why I'm here? Or is it just because... it's like you said. Those evil folks upstairs wanted it like this. I couldn't tell you. I'm not sure. All I'm saying is that child's completely innocent in all this. It's certainly not her fault she was born in this hellhole. Sir, please I'm begging you. Jun-hee needs you. They need you to survive. Instead of me and my son, save Jun-hee. Save Jun-hee and her baby, sir. I'm begging you. Please, I'm begging you, sir. Please help. Get them out of here, please.
Geum-ja's last words to Seong Gi-hun before hanging herself in "It's Not Your Fault"     Geum-ja's corpse.  
As a result of Hyun-ju and her son's death in Hide and Seek, and of Jun-hee's baby being born in such a place, Geum-ja began to beg players to end the games, saying that she will forfeit all of her prize money to get out. The players did not listen to her, as the 16 players voted to continue the games, and only 8 voted to stop. (As some players just coldly ignored her while others were too scared of Team O.) Later, Geum-ja convinced Jun-hee to eat, saying that the mother must live for the baby to live, also saying that Jun-hee's baby was her only current concern. That night, Geum-ja began to have a conversation with a handcuffed Gi-hun. She looks at life itself, calling it unfair, saying that bad people do bad things, while good people blame themselves for other's actions, using her deceased son as a example. She reflected on his death, blaming it on herself, saying directly, "In the end, I killed him. With my own hands, I killed my own child." Geum-ja asked Gi-hun to help Jun-hee and her baby, saying that she believed he was truly trying to help them. But Gi-hun apologized and told her that he can't be that person anymore, even though she kept begging him to do it.
After conversing with Gi-hun that night, demotivated, devastated by the brutality she witnessed and aware that she had mainly cause the death of her beloved son, she committed suicide by hanging herself in the dormitory. The guards take her body away the next morning.

Legacy
Geum-ja's suicide is what made Gi-hun break out from his depressive state and allowed him to become more determined in keeping her promise by helping out Jun-hee and her baby. While he was unable to save Jun-hee in Jump-rope, he was able to save her baby in the final game, which ultimately costed Gi-hun his life.

Kill count
Confirmed killsAttempted kills


Character

Information

Image/GIF


"The Starry Night"Hide and Seek


Park Yong-sik(Player 007)

Stabbed in the back with her hidden knife in her hairpin to defend Jun-hee, ultimately causing him to run out of time to kill at least one hider, leading to him getting shot 6 times by a soldier off-screen.




"It's Not Your Fault"Dormitory


Herself

Committed suicide by hanging herself from a bed frame because of the heavy guilt after killing her son.





Character

Information

Image/GIF


"O X"Mingle


Seon-nyeo(Player 044)

Indirectly attemped by abandoning her during the 2nd Round of Mingle; alongside Yong-sik, Young-mi and Hyun-ju.



Trivia
She also once swore to Yong-sik that she would have hanged herself if he voted 'O' again at the third vote. Ironically, that’s exactly how she would later die.
She is most likely the only participant who participated in the 37th Squid Game with the intention of paying off another person's debt and not because of her own debt.
Her husband's infidelity could be a reference to Lee Bok-soon from A Virtuous Business who was also portrayed by Kang Ae-shim.
Shes the 27th and last ever player to die in the dormitory, the others being the 26 dead players in the Special Game [counting the deaths of the player who died in 2020 Special Game she would be the 54th].
It is stated by her son that as a kid she used to play Gonggi with bullets.
Her player number 149 contains the correct digits of 7 plus 2 (9), 7 times 2 (14) and 7 raised to the power of 2 (49). Her son, Park Yong-sik's player number is 007. It is unknown whether this is intentional or not.
She was the first player to know that Jun-hee was pregnant (Myung-gi didn't know yet that Jun-hee was in the games) and also the first person to meet the baby along with Hyun-ju.
She places third in Gi-hun's team (not including the baby).
Geum-ja's death is very similar to that of Player 069 from the 33rd Squid Games.
Both committed suicide by hanging in the dormitory after losing their loved ones in the 4th game (Player 069 was forced to play against his wife (Player 070), while Geum-ja was forced to play against her son (whom she eventually killed to save Jun-hee).
Also, both tried in vain to convince the rest of the players to stop the games and the VIPs mocked them.
The only difference is that Player 069 got a harsh reminder from a fellow player that his wife's death would be in vain, while Geum-ja had no such reminder that her son's death would be in vain from any O player.
The above dilemmas, in particular Geum-ja's are indirectly and partially referenced and recreated in both seasons of the reality show Squid Game: The Challenge. Both seasons partially focused on a prominent parent-child pair that stayed intact up until the fourth game, where both pairs were forced to play against each other. However, the roles were reversed; it was the parent who was eliminated in the fourth game while their respective child managed to see the fifth game, which they got eliminated in.
Trey Plutnicki (Player 301 in the reality show) has been asked whether Geum-ja and Yong-sik were directly inspired by himself and his own mother (LeAnn/Player 302) from the reality show. Trey states this is not possible, as he claims Hwang Dong-hyuk began writing Season 2 in 2022, while the reality show began filming at the start of 2023. Dong-hyuk later confirms this in an interview, stating that "it's a coincidence".
Kang Ae-shim is so iconic as Jang Geum-ja that, in the upcoming movie Wall to Wall, starring Ae-shim and Kang Ha-neul (Kang Dae-ho's actor), people commented "Player 149 and Player 388's next life as mother and son".
News report that on December 31th 2025, a 12-year-old boy tragically died while trying to recreate a scene from Squid Game. The boy was found unconscious, hanging himself with a blanket, implying that was Geum-ja's death scene.[1]
Her given name translates to 'golden leader,' reflecting her character of keeping people rational.
She is the last player in the 14X range to be eliminated in the 37th squid game.
She is the only player in season three to not die in Hide and Seek, Jump Rope, or Sky Squid Game.
Based on the Hide and Seek map image, Geum-ja was likely supposed to have a triangle key, as the door unlocked at the beginning of the game by Hyun-ju with her key was a triangle hole.
While Geum-ja's pleas to end the games appear to have been ignored.
If you do look closely both Player 260 and Player 435 looked sadly over at Team X, implying they didn't want to continue playing anymore while Player 448 a surviving unwilling O voter turned her face away which showed her guilt for changing her vote and it is questionable if they were the only players who didn't want to play anymore.
If these players all changed their votes to X including Player 039 another unwilling O voter. The vote would've been 12 (X) and 12 (O) another tie and if Gi-hun voted it would've been 13 (X) and 12 (O), which did suggest if players made their own decisions instead of being blinded by fear Team X could've won the 4th round of voting.
She has one of the longest uninterrupted pieces of dialogue.
Geum-ja and Jun-hee are the only non-finalist players to die without their jackets.
If the numbers of her Hide and Seek team are added up, it is 491, which is her number scrambled. This is most likely a coincidence.
She is the last female player confirmed to have played Gonggi for the pentathlon.
She was the first one of her group to decide to abandon Seon-nyeo, as she can be seen grabbing onto Yong-sik and walking backwards.
In the third round of Mingle she teamed up with Seong Gi-hun [Player 456] and Hwang In-ho [Player 001 in this game]. These are the three players who interrupt the voting in various votes to make a speech to the 0s to try and leave the games [Gi-hun interrupted the first vote to do this, In-ho interrupted the second and Geum-ja interrupted the fifth vote]. Additionally her son Yong-sik is the closest person to being the fourth in this group as he does try to persuade the Os to change their votes to X between the third and fourth vote and funnily he was the closest person to being paired with her in the third round of Mingle before Player 172 and Player 220 pulled him away.
Mistakes
During the third vote, Geum-ja can be seen celebrating with her friends after Player 185 switches her vote. In the next shot, she is seen walking up to vote instead.
Behind the scenes
Jang Geum-ja was portrayed by Kang Ae-shim. In the English dub, she is voiced by Christine Avila. In the French dub, she is voiced by Blanche Ravalec.

Appearances
Season Two
"001"
"Six Legs"
"One More Game"
"O X"
"Friend or Foe"
Season Three
"Keys and Knives"
"The Starry Night"
"It's Not Your Fault"
Gallery
Season 2
Geum-ja hearing Yong-sikGeum-ja running over to Yong-sik.Geum-ja smacking Yong-sik.Geum-ja as Yong-sik asks her why she's in the games.Geum-ja trying to convince Yong-sik to leave while she plays the games.Geum-ja signing the contract, against Yong-sik's wishes.Geum-ja asking Yong-sik about Hyun-ju while waiting to take her picture in the stair room.Geum-ja expressing confusing over the game being a kids game.Geum-ja mocking Gi-hun.Geum-ja at the start of Red Light, Green LightGeum-ja hearing Mi-na scream.Geum-ja holding Yong-sik during the mass panic.Geum-ja listening to Gi-hun's instructions after the panic ends.Yong-sik putting Geum-ja behind him.Geum-ja behind Yong-sik.Geum-ja standing still, as seen on a monitor.Jun-hee grabbing onto Geum-ja.Geum-ja holding Jun-hee.Geum-ja running on a green light.Yong-sik and Geum-ja crossing the finish line.Geum-ja watching Hyun-ju and Gi-hun bring Nam-du across the finish line.Geum-ja in the dorm after the first game.Geum-ja begging the staff to release them.Geum-ja looking at Gi-hun.Geum-ja and Yong-sik watching the piggy bank be filled.Geum-ja breaking up Jung-bae and Yeong-sam.Geum-ja speaking up in the first vote.Geum-ja looking at Yeong-sam after Gi-hun states he's played the games before.Geum-ja looking at the polls.Geum-ja voting X.Geum-ja yelling at Yong-sik to vote X.Geum-ja relived after Yong-sik votes O.Geum-ja disappointed after 004 votes O.Geum-ja after Team X officially loses the vote.Geum-ja on the floor.Geum-ja giving her egg to Jun-hee.Geum-ja talking to Jun-hee about her pregnancy.Geum-ja being pulled away by Yong-sik.Geum-ja scolding Gi-hun in his nightmare.Geum-ja expressing confusing to Yong-sik, believing the second game would be Dalgona.Geum-ja meeting, and being rejected by players 016, 178, and 189.Geum-ja telling Yong-sik to join 016's team.Geum-ja scolding Yong-sik after he raised his voice to her.Geum-ja and Yong-sik finding Hyun-ju and Young-mi.Geum-ja muttering at the same time as Hyun-ju if they could join together.Geum-ja looking at Seon-nyeo.Geum-ja listening to the game's rules.Geum-ja talking to Hyun-ju and Young-mi about which games they should each play.Geum-ja muttering to Yong-sik about Seon-nyeo's rudeness.Geum-ja ducking after the first two teams are eliminated.Geum-ja standing with her team.Geum-ja encouraging her teammates.Geum-ja just before setting off.Hyun-ju and Geum-ja leaning back for Seon-nyeo's arms.Geum-ja and her team making their way to Ddakji.Geum-ja watching Yong-sik play Biseokchigi.Geum-ja calming Yong-sik down after he messes Biseokchigi up.Geum-ja telling Yong-sik to imagine the slab is his friend who scammed him.Geum-ja celebrating after Yong-sik completes Biseokchigi.Geum-ja and her team making their way to Gonggi.Geum-ja playing Gonggi.Geum-ja getting nervous after messing Gonggi up twice.Geum-ja making her way through Gonggi with a clearer head.Geum-ja looking at the five stones on the back of her hand.Geum-ja imagining the stones as her ex-husband's mistress' face.Geum-ja completing Gonggi.Ditto.Ditto, gif.Geum-ja celebrating after finishing Gonggi.Geum-ja watching Seon-nyeo wrap the Paengi.Geum-ja questioning if Seon-nyeo's played Paengi before.Geum-ja watching Seon-nyeo spiral.Geum-ja looking at Yong-sik as Hyun-ju smacks Seon-nyeo.Geum-ja celebrating after Seon-nyeo completes Paengi.Geum-ja turning per Hyun-ju's request.Geum-ja counting Hyun-ju's kicks.Geum-ja after Hyun-ju kicks the Jegi five times.Geum-ja and her team about to cross the finish line in Six-Legged Pentathlon.Geum-ja crossing the finish line.Geum-ja rejoicing after completing the Six-Legged Pentathlon.Ditto.Geum-ja back in the dorms, talking to Hyun-ju.Geum-ja asking what procedures Hyun-ju is referring to.Geum-ja reaching for Hyun-ju's chest, before being stuck by Yong-sik.Geum-ja watching Gi-hun's team return to the dorms.Geum-ja waving to Jung-bae.Geum-ja giving thumbs up to Jun-hee.Geum-ja watching the prize increase.Geum-ja talking about having dinner with her teammates once they're out.Geum-ja reminding Yong-sik to vote X.Geum-ja realizing he voted O.Geum-ja and Young-mi after Team X is defeated by a landslide.Geum-ja after receiving food.Geum-ja listening to everything that's happened to Yong-sik.Geum-ja stating she wouldn't have a reason to go on if Yong-sik died.Geum-ja asking why Hyun-ju voted to continue.Ditto.Geum-ja listening to everything that's happened to Hyun-ju.Geum-ja's reaction to finding out Hyun-ju was a sergeant.Geum-ja saying Hyun-ju looks fine.Geum-ja making Yong-sik snort his milk.Geum-ja getting up to go to the bathroom.Geum-ja showing Yong-sik her knife, ensuring her saftey.Geum-ja telling Jun-hee they can go to the bathroom together.Geum-ja asking the soldier if they can go to the bathroom.Geum-ja crying after the soldier ignores her.Geum-ja thanking the soldier for letting them go.Geum-ja making her way to the bathrooms with Hyun-ju and Jun-hee.Geum-ja whispering to Hyun-ju about Jun-hee's pregnancy.Geum-ja hearing Jun-hee's cries.Geum-ja instructing Jun-hee, believing she's going into labor.Geum-ja realizing she's just crying.Geum-ja hugging Jun-hee.Geum-ja patting Hyun-ju on the back while making her way to the third game.Geum-ja and her teammates discussing their strategy for Mingle.Ditto.Geum-ja and her team putting their thumbs together.Geum-ja on the carousel as round one begins.Geum-ja and her allies making their way to room 44.Geum-ja after the first round ends.Geum-ja looking at Seon-nyeo.Geum-ja staring at Seon-nyeo before ditching her in round two.Geum-ja entering a room.Geum-ja after surviving round two.Geum-ja exiting her room after round two ends.Geum-ja avoiding Seon-nyeo's gaze.Geum-ja listening to Hyun-ju's strategy in round three.Geum-ja and Yong-sik running off to find one more.Geum-ja and Yong-sik calling out for one more.Geum-ja watching Yong-sik be taken by 172 and 220.Ditto, gif.Geum-ja freezing up.Geum-ja being swept up by Gi-hun and In-ho.Gi-hun and In-ho bringing Geum-ja into a room.Gi-hun asking Geum-ja if she's alright.Geum-ja thanking Gi-hun and In-ho for saving her life.Geum-ja making an excuse for why she wasn't with Yong-sik.Geum-ja standing up to In-ho after he accused Yong-sik of abandoning her.Geum-ja yelling at In-ho.Geum-ja leaving the room after round three ends.Geum-ja opening her arms for Young-mi and Hyun-ju.Geum-ja thanking Gyeong-seok for saving Hyun-ju and Young-mi.Ditto.Geum-ja hesitating after Hyun-ju asked where Yong-sik was.Geum-ja noticing Yong-sik.Geum-ja walking over to Yong-sik.Geum-ja assuring Yong-sik everything's ok.Geum-ja hugging Yong-sik as he breaks down crying.Geum-ja with Yong-sik as round four begins.Geum-ja communing with her allies during round four.Geum-ja getting kicked out of room 02 by Jeong-dae's team.Geum-ja running to room 06.Geum-ja entering room 06.Geum-ja crying over Young-mi's death.Geum-ja exiting the room after round four ends.Geum-ja and Yong-sik on the carousel as the final round begins.Geum-ja and Yong-sik running to room 38.Geum-ja panting as she enters the room.Geum-ja making her way back to the dormitory.Geum-ja staring at Seon-nyeo as she curses them.Ditto.Geum-ja uncursing herself and her friends.Geum-ja happy after Player 185 changes her vote to X (error).Geum-ja walking up to vote.Geum-ja telling Yong-sik she'll hang herself if Yong-sik votes O again.Geum-ja looking at the polls.Geum-ja voting X.Ditto.Geum-ja holding Hyun-ju after she changes to X.Geum-ja disappointed after Player 009 votes O.Geum-ja assuring Jung-bae that Yong-sik will vote X.Geum-ja celebrating after Yong-sik votes X.Ditto.Geum-ja telling her allies she believes they have a better chance at winning the revote.Geum-ja calling to the Os.Geum-ja yelling at the Os with the other Xs.Geum-ja after the bathroom fight eliminations are announced.Geum-ja as the headcount forms.Geum-ja in the headcount.Geum-ja in the discussion about the Special Game.Geum-ja looking up.Geum-ja and Yong-sik during the lights out countdown.Geum-ja Jun-hee and Yong-sik hiding during the Special Game.Geum-ja watching the rebellion begin.Geum-ja stopping Yong-sik from volunteering.Geum-ja watching Hyun-ju and the other rebels set off.Geum-ja hearing gunshots.Geum-ja and the others watching Dae-ho return to the dormitory.Geum-ja and the others after helping Dae-ho gather ammo.Geum-ja stopping Hyun-ju from shooting the guards, saving her life.
Season 3
Geum-ja and co approaching the coffin.Geum-ja and co as Gi-hun wakes up.Geum-ja watching Gi-hun beg for death.Geum-ja holding a red ball.Geum-ja as Yong-sik tries to convince her to swap teams.Hyun-ju's team watching Player 418 run away.Hyun-ju's team noticing Yeong-sam.Hyun-ju's team running away.DittoGeum-ja protecting Jun-hee from Myung-gi after he killed Hyun-ju.Geum-ja wanting Yong-sik to kill her so that he and Jun-hee can survive.Geum-ja after stabbing Yong-sik.Geum ja looks at Yong-sik in timer 00:01.Ditto but its in timer 00:00.Geum-ja hugging Yong-sik.Geum-ja and Jun-hee returning to the dormitory.Geum-ja’s icon after Hide and Seek.Geum-ja pressing the X.Geum-ja near the voting table.Geum-ja disappointed because Player 163 voted O.Geum-ja wanting Player 192 to vote X."I'm begging you to put a stop to this now."Geum-ja telling Jun-hee to just worry about her and the baby now.Gi-hun looking at Geum-ja.Geum-ja talking to Gi-hun.Geum-ja's suicide.Geum-ja after being placed in a coffin after her death.Geum-ja's before faded icon.Her icon fading.Geum-ja's faded icon.
Behind the scenes
Geum-ja in a BTS image
Promotional
Geum-ja in the "Welcome Players" teaser.Jang Geum-ja promotional icon.Geum-ja in the bathroom with Jun-heeGeum-ja in a crowd with many players.Park Yong-sik and Jang Geum-ja.Geum-ja looking at a coffin.Geum-ja Season 3 promotional image.Geum-ja next to Yong-sik.Geum-ja and Yong-sik in a season 3 posterGeum-ja and Yong-sik in a season 2 poster
References

↑ Fonte: New York Post https://share.google/nf8YA6iReuaTBzj8c

Season Two37th Squid GameMain Characters
001
007
120
149
222
230
333
388
390
456
Major Characters
044
047
095
100
124
125
196
226
246
256
380
Supporting Characters
004
006
009
015
016
043
050
066
072
096
145
172
178
189
192
197
198
206
220
254
283
285
313
324
336
343
348
353
394
400
418
442
444
Minor Characters
031
039
045
067
080
084
135
140
165
185
188
199
202
203
209
216
237
238
239
249
257
260
263
270
286
306
308
328
331
350
355
371
384
395
401
415
416
435
448
453
454
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
Others
The Salesman
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Kang Eun-ji
Park Jung-bae
Ex-wifeM
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Chief Kim
Lee Ju-hong
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Mr. Kim
Choi Woo-seok
Lee Jang-uk
Hwang Jae-hun
Yun Jun-ho
Sea Captains
Sea Captain Park
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-wooN
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Hwang In-ho's wife
Kang Sae-byeokNP
Kang Sae-byeok's motherP
Kang Cheol
Park Mal-soon
Park Mi-yeong
Broker
Dentist
Season Three37th Squid GameMain Characters
007
120
124
125
149
222B
246PG
333
388
456
Major Characters
039
044
096
100
203
226
306
336
353
Supporting Characters
006
009
172
192
197
202
230H
232
235
260
349
377
380H
390C
394
400
411
418
442
447
Minor Characters
024
028
047C
048
080
084
105
119
134
145
154
163
191
209
241
276
296
310
312
334
344
350
359
435
440
443
448
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Kim Jung-ho
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
VIPs
Richard
Jennifer
John
Jack
Kevin
Others
Waiters
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Choi Woo-seok
Kim Mu-dong
Sea Captains
Park Yeong-gil
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Kang Sae-byeokH
Kang Sae-byeok's mother
Kang Cheol
Oh Il-namF
Park Man-cheol