Title: Glass bottles
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Glass_bottles
--------------------------------------------------
This page is currently a Work In Progress!


This page is currently a WIP. Expect more changes soon!

The following is a comprehensive list of the objects from the Squid Game series.

List Of Objects[]


Object

Descriprion

Picture


Biseokchigi

Biseokchigi is the second mini game in the Six-Legged Pentathlon requiring players to throw a stone trying to hit the other stone.

     


Cheol-su

Cheol-su is a doll seen in the Jump Rope game, across from Young-hee.

     


Coffin

This is the object used where the dead bodies of players are stored in before they are burned.

      


Dalgona

Dalgona was the cookie that players had to carve out in the 2nd game of the 33rd Squid Game called Sugar Honeycombs.

      


Ddakji

Ddakji was the game The Recruiter played when recruiting players, Ddakji was also the first mini game in the Six-Legged Pentathlon

      


Fork

The Fork was given out in the 33rd Squid Game and the 37th Squid Game as a eating utensil.

      


Glass bottles

This is an everyday that players would smash into shards to stab and murder other Players or bash on players heads weakening them and killing them.

      


Gonggi

Gonggi is the 3rd mini game in Six-Legged Pentathlon also being the most difficult of the 5, it requires players to throw 1 Gonggi in the air than grab another and catch the one you threw, than throw 2 in the air etc.

      


Gumball machine

The Gumball machine is the object that chooses teams in the Hide and Seek.

      


Heckler & Koch MP5

The Heckler & Koch MP5 is the standard assault rifle given to Soldiers.

      


Heckler & Koch PSG1

The Heckler & Koch PSG1 is the Sniper Rifles used by Soldiers in Red Light, Green Light (game).

      


Jegi

Jegi Is the 5th and final mini game in the Six-Legged Pentathlon which requires the player to hit the Jegi with their foot 5 times without it touching the ground.

      


Key

The key was an item that was given to Hiders in Hide and Seek to unlock doors to hide in rooms or escape.

      


Knife

The knife was an item that was given to Seekers in Hide and Seek to kill Hiders.

      


Marble

The marble was the object used in 4th game of the 33rd Squid Game Marbles where players could use the marbles for any game of their choice.

      


Paengi

Paengi was the 4th game in Six-Legged Pentathlon where players had to wrap a cord around the top hold the complete item steadily and throw it in a way that makes it spin.

      


Piggy Bank

Where the accumulated amount of won is stored.

      


Prize money

The accumulated amount of won that is earned each game.

      


Smith & Wesson Model 19

The Smith & Wesson Model 19 is the regular Revolver used mostly by Soldiers but occasionally by Managers.

      


Tracksuits

These are the clothes given to all players in the 33rd Squid Game and the 37th Squid Game.

      


Young-hee

Young-hee is the “doll” used to detect movement in Red Light, Green Light. Another variant of the doll is seen in the Jump Rope game, across from Cheol-su.

      


Oh Il-nam's dagger

Oh Il-nam‘s dagger is a weapon given to Hwang In-ho to kill the 28th Squid Game Finalists. During the 37th Squid Game, it was gaven to Seong Gi-hun and briefly used by Lee Myung-gi