Title: Gonggi (The Challenge)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Gonggi_(The_Challenge)
--------------------------------------------------
Mini-Games (Original)


Ddakji Chigi

Biseokchigi

Gonggi Nori

Paengi Doligi

Jegichagi



Mini-Games (The Challenge)


Ball in a Cup

Biseokchigi

Gonggi Nori

House of Cards

Jegichagi




Gonggi (The Challenge)






Game Information

Game No.
3


Teams?
No




Continuation


Previous
Next




Biseokchigi
House of Cards





Gonggi Nori, also known simply as Gonggi, is a traditional Korean game featured as the third mini-game in the Six-Legged Pentathlon in Squid Game: The Challenge Season 2.

Game Information[]
Objective: The player in charge of this mini-game must perform a gonggi gameplay and complete all 5 levels by tossing and catching the stones according to the rules of each level. Once all 5 levels are cleared and the player catches all 5 stones at the end, the team passes this mini-game.
In this game, the Player will be given 5 gonggi stones (generally made of plastic with pebbles inside for weight) and a flat table. To play the game, player must toss a single gonggi stone into the air, pick up another, and catch the tossed stone. The challenge increases as the player progresses, requiring them to pick up additional stones with each round. If the player missed any stones, they have to restart from the beginning, regardless of the level they've passed.
This is an easier version of the original Gonggi, as some of the rules are simplified:

You don't need to restart if you accidentally move any gonggi stone on the table.
In level 4, you may also scatter all stones onto the playing surface directly without throwing a stone before dropping the others.
In level 5, the flip from flat hand to back hand is removed, instead, you place the stones on the back of your hand in preparation of the final flip and catch.

How to play Gonggi in each level:


Level

Steps


1

Scatter all stones onto the playing surface.Throw one stone into the air.Pick up one stone from the playing surface and catch the airborne stone.Repeat until all five stones are collected.


2

Scatter all stones onto the playing surface.Throw one stone into the air.Pick up two stones from the playing surface and catch the airborne stone.Repeat until all five stones are collected.


3

Scatter all stones onto the playing surface.Throw one stone into the air.Pick up three stones from the playing surface and catch the airborne stone.Throw one stone into the air again.Pick up the last stone from the playing surface and catch the airborne stone.


4

Throw one stone into the air.Drop other four stones onto the playing surface and catch the airborne stone.(You may also scatter all stones onto the playing surface directly without throwing a stone before dropping the others).Throw the stone into the air again.Pick up all four stones from the playing surface and catch the airborne stone.


5

Throw all five stones into the air.Catch all five stones on the back of your hand.(You may also directly place all five stones on the back of your hand instead).Throw all five stones into the air.Catch all five stones in the end.