Title: Gyeong-su
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Gyeong-su
--------------------------------------------------
Gyeong-su






Name
Gyeong-su


Aliases
Player 256 (37th Squid Game)Big Fan (By himself)By ThanosYoungestMy BoyHandsome


Relationships
Thanos † (idol and friend, teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon and Mingle; unknowing indirect killer)Nam-gyu † (friend and teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon and Mingle)Se-mi †  (teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon and Mingle)Park Min-su † (friend, teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon and Mingle)Oh Young-ilKang Dae-ho †Park Jung-bae †Lee Myung-gi †


Affiliation
Thanos' fansSquid Games37th Squid GameTeam OThanos' team (formerly)


Born
1998[1] (age 26)[2]South Korea


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
November 3, 2024[3]Mingle


Cause of death
Shot in the chest by a soldier for failing to enter a room after being kicked to the ground by Thanos.



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Brown


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Kang Sung-wook





First appearance
Last appearance




"001"
"⭘△☐" (file)







Voting




Round 1
Round 2












Don't you know who this is? It's the rap god, Thanos. Don't even need to snap, kill half the universe with a rap.
Gyeong-su to Se-mi in "Six Legs"

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 255
Player 257







Gyeong-su (경수 Gyeong-su?), also known as Player 256, was a participant in the 37th Squid Game. 

Contents

1 Personality
2 History

2.1 Before the games
2.2 "001"
2.3 "Six Legs"
2.4 "One More Game"
2.5 "O X" and Fate
2.6 Legacy


3 Trivia
4 Behind the scenes
5 Appearances
6 Quotes
7 Gallery

7.1 Promotional
7.2 Behind the scenes


8 References


Personality
Gyeong-su was a music-loving individual and a hip-hop fan, Gyeong-su was someone very close to Hongdae, Seoul, as well as a dedicated follower of Thanos within the game. He was friendly and supportive toward his teammates, especially his idol, Thanos.

History
Before the games
Gyeong-su was born in 1998 (age 26) South Korea. Gyeong-su is someone very close to Hongdae, Seoul. Gyeong-su was a fan of the famous rapper and Rap Battle Grounds finalist "The Great Thanos", and has seen all of his concerts and memorized the lyrics to his songs. Gyeong-su started accumulating a lot of debts that he couldn't pay. Shortly before Halloween, a recruiter approached Gyeong-su and played a game of Ddakji with him. The recruiter invited him to the Squid Games, where he could earn more money. The Recruiter gave him a card. 
On Halloween night, Gyeong-su calls the card number, A van arrived with some pink men with masks in front and without warning they put him to sleep. He woke up in a Dormitory with 454 other Players and signs his consent form.

"001"
     Gyeong-su recognizes Thanos before taking his photo.  
Listen, I'm Gyeong-su. I'm a huge fan. I go to all your concerts. Would it be okay if you and I took a picture?
Gyeong-su introducing himself and asking to take a picture with Thanos in "001"
Gyeong-su woke up in a strange room with more people, then he saw the pink men again who took him in the van, Gyeong-su saw more people who were asking questions to the pink men to which they began to reveal debts of some people who were not allowed to pay those debts to which Gyeong-su understood that there were more people like him who were not allowed to pay debts, then the men in pink showed a piggy bank that would be filled with money if the people were eliminated. The pink men told them that they had to sign a consent in case they wanted to participate to win the money that would accumulate. They gave him a paper that had some clauses, Gyeong-su, having so many debts, signed the consent. 
When the players were taking their identification pictures, He recognized the famous rapper and finalist of Rap Battle Grounds "The Great Thanos", he was a fan and he claims to have heard in all his concerts that he knew a Thanos rhyme. After he brought up Thanos's identity, many players with Nam-gyu (Player 124) including him gathered to get in Thanos's picture. However, a guard prevented the group from taking the image together and they were forced back in line, with Thanos promising everyone he would take a picture with them once they got out, Gyeong-su climbs the stairs to the first game.
In the first game, "Red Light, Green Light" The goal of the game was for players to reach the other end of an enclosed field, where the doll was located, within five minutes. They could move when the doll shouted "green light," but if it shouted "red light," they had to remain still while the doll watched them. Any player caught moving was eliminated. Gyeong-su and the other players felt the sound of a bullet, it was a player who was dead Gyeong-su did not run like some players but did not move so that this would not happen to her after the chaos of the first players Gyeong-su and none of the players moved until Seong Gi-hun told them that they had to reach the goal to survive to which he told them to hide to which Gyeong-su hid behind the Player 365, after Gi-hun told him and the players to run to which Gyeong-su without hesitation ran at the same time as Cho Hyun-ju, Nam-gyu (who already knew each other in the photos) Lee Myung-gi and the aforementioned Player 365, managing to beat the game.
Return to the dormitory, a masked manager holds an election on whether the contestants will continue or end the games, He voted O being the 79th vote of the O and was seen among those cheering as the O's won the vote.

"Six Legs"
     Gyeong-su and Nam-gyu follow Thanos in Six-Legged Pentathlon.  
Later the in the Dormitory workers give Gyeong-su lunchbox food: It contains egg, sausage, kimchi, white rice and black beans. The lunch boxes come with plastic water bottles and are somewhat dry for Gyeong-su to prepare for tomorrow.
Gyeong-su climbs the stairs to the second game, it is announced that the second game is "Six-Legged Pentathlon" which consists of five children's games: Ddakji (game I had already played with the recruiter), Biseokchigi, Gonggi, Paengi and Jegi. Gyeong-su Thanos and Nam-gyu convinced Se-mi (Player 380) (a girl that Thanos found pretty) and Park Min-su (Player 125 (the boy that Se-mi already teamed up with). After Se-mi and Min-su agreed to be on the team, when the team 1 and 2 were eliminated Gyeong-su scared looks at Kwon Byeong-su that I said they had to leave blaming of the O voters, Nam-gyu told Gyeong-su, Min-su and Se-mi not to be afraid to win.

"One More Game"
Gyeong-su played Ddakji who managed to complete the game just like his teammates.  
After Six-Legged Pentathlon in the lobby, he sat with his new team members and one of them, Nam-gyu, tried to force Min-su to count the remaining players. This was stopped by Se-mi, resulting in an argument between the two players. Thanos intervened to ask the ages of their group and Gyeong-su was revealed to be the youngest alongside Se-mi (though Se-mi was possibly born later), born in 1998. Afterwards,Manager shows them the Piggy bank and Gyeong-su along with Se-mi and Min-su who stare intently Later in the Voting Gyeong-su sees Nam-gyu telling Min-su to vote O and that they agreed to play one more game making him vote O, And Gyeong-su being the 77th vote of the O again. Later, the Workers give food Later, the Workers give them bread with milk and cream filling for food to Gyeong-su and his team to prepare for tomorrow. 
In the bathroom, Gyeong-su was with Thanos and Nam-gyu as they confronted Myung-gi for switching his vote, although he makes no attempt to bully, harass or intimidate him unlike his teammates. He even snickers as Myung-gi insults him for forgetting his lyrics once.

"O X" and Fate
No... I thought we were-
Gyeong-su's last words to Thanos in "O X" 
Gyeong-su climbs the stairs to the third game together with Thanos, Nam-gyu, Se-mi and Min-su.
The Third Game "Mingle" Players had to group up and enter rooms following a predetermined number. If players don't manage to make it into the rooms in time or if a room does not contain a required number, they will be eliminated. Gyeong-su manages to pass the first round of Mingle, During the second round of Mingle, it was announced that the number was 4. Thanos started choosing which members of his team to take with him and Gyeong-su tried to beg him to take him with him, but then Thanos kicked him off the team and told the others to run. Thanos and Nam-gyu ran off while Min-su worried about Gyeong-su, but Se-mi grabbed his arm and they ran. Thanos, Nam-gyu, Min-su and Se-mi arrived at Room 41 and saved themselves from dying.
When time is up, Min-su, worried, asks Nam-gyu what happened to Gyeong-su, Nam-gyu, angry, punches Min-su in the chest and tells him that if he talks to him again as if he were his friend, he will be the next to die. Then Thanos (after the drug wears off) asks the team where Gyeong-su is, suddenly shots start to be heard and Thanos realizes that Gyeong-su stayed outside, Thanos pushes Nam-gyu away, looks through the peephole and screams in horror, regretting leaving him alone, with a horrified look through the peephole and screams Gyeong-su's name, Gyeong-su is shot in the chest and is killed along with the 
other eliminated.
After Mingle, Thanos sings to Min-su. "Min-su, Nam-su , Gyeong-su, Thanos-su" making a direct mention of him after his death.

Legacy
In Keys and Knives[4], before starting the fourth game, Hide and Seek, Nam-gyu tells Min-su that they are the last members of their and that Thanos was dead, and the same with the whole crew. Despite this, there is no name drop. But in here, we can already get the hint that Nam-gyu is indicating Gyeong-su and Se-mi are dead. Hence with this, Gyeong-su is mentioned in Season 3.
His digital file can also be seen in "⭘△☐"[5] when the Masked Officer opens the files to delete Park Gyeong-seok's file while being held at gunpoint by Kang No-eul, but Gyeong-su's file was ignored and was never opened.

Trivia
Gyeong-su, Kim Young-mi and Sim Jae-seok, were the only important characters to die in Mingle. Since Jae-seok is supporting character, while Young-mi and Gyeong-su are major ones.
Gyeong-su is the only important character who died in Round 2 of Mingle.
Gyeong-su's digital file would later be seen when The Officer opens the list of player files, although Gyeong-su's file itself wasn't opened.
He could have survived and escaped by going to Room 33 with Player 313, Player 050, and Player 238. After this, he likely would've been mad at the team for abandoning him and possibly have voted X. Given this, Player 313, Player 050, and Player 238 could've lasted until Round 4-5 of Mingle or if they had luck on their side; survive the game.
He is the only member of Team Thanos who Nam-gyu never expressed negative emotions about.
He shares his given name with the winner of the 20th Squid Game, Choi Gyeong-su. Though, it is unclear if both shared the same last name.
His player number is a square number. (16²)
His player number is also a perfect tetration number. (4⁴)
His player number is also a power of two. (2⁸)
In an interview, the actor stated that he believed his number (256) being in the middle of the pack between 1 and 456 symbolizes Gyeong-su's ordinary life with no drawn out narrative.
Gyeong-su is the first member of Thanos' team to die and the only one to die in Mingle.
In addition, he's also the only member of Thanos' Team who did not appear in Min-su's later hallucinations.
Gyeong-su and Se-mi are the only members of Thanos' team who did not take Thanos' pills.
He is the only member of Thanos' team who did not kill/attempt to kill somebody.
Gyeong-su is the only fan of Thanos that was killed by Thanos himself.
He's one of the characters whose motive for entering the games and/or the amount of his debt is unknown, The most reasonable thing is that Gyeong-su spent his money on Thanos' concerts because according to him he went to all of his concerts.
According to Gyeong-su's last thoughts, it was about his mother, there was a lot of blood around him and he felt pressure.
Gyeong-su is someone very close to Hongdae, Seoul.
He just had to act like he was falling as he focused more on Gyeong-su's thoughts before he was thrown. "Hey, are you going to take me with you?".
Despite being part of Thanos' team, he does not have any direct (on-screen) interaction with any other team member besides Thanos.
He is directly mentioned in "Keys and Knives", however his name isn‘t dropped. Only in the german dub, Nam-gyu says "The other two members of our crew", directly mentioning Gyeong-su and Se-mi.
Gyeong-su's last words to Thanos begin with ''No....I thought we were....'' right before Thanos kicks him out of the group. There is a small chance that in order to remind Thanos of their strong friendship Gyeong-su would have finished the sentence ''No.....I thought we were friends"
Behind the scenes
Gyeong-su was portrayed by Kang Sung-wook. 
In an interview[6], Kang Sung-wook, according to his own words, "they chose him for the role of Gyeong-su through an audition". They called him and told him that he had been chosen. For the first time as an actor they gave him a role with a name, the first time he went to the site he was shaking, in his thoughts he thought they would throw him out but it didn't happen. During his middle and high school years, he was a big fan of hip-hop just like Gyeong-su from the Hongdae neighborhood of Seoul. He also stated that if Gyeong-su won the games, he would've spent the money recklessly or released a new hip-hop album with it. In Gyeong-su's script there were parts of raps, so he tried it several times and found the most optimal rhythm then he tried to practice it more times until he got it. In the part of Gyeong-su's fall, Kang Sung-wook Kang said he didn't like it that kind of acting. He just had to act like he was falling as he focused more on Gyeong-su's thoughts before he was thrown. "Hey, are you going to take me with you?". According to Gyeong-su's last thoughts, it was about his mother, there was a lot of blood around him and he felt pressure. On the Mingle set when he saw it for the first time he saw that the scale was incredible. When they shout out various people's names and psychedelic lighting and remember being overwhelmed by the atmosphere.

Appearances
Season Two
"001"
"Six Legs"
"One More Game"
"O X"
Season Three
"Keys and Knives" (indirectly mentioned)
"⭘△☐" (file)
Quotes

You're Thanos, the rapper? Oh, shit.
Gyeong-su to Thanos in "001" 
I'm gonna kill half of humanity with my raps, bam
Gyeong-su says one of Thanos' raps in "001" 
The runner-up of The Rap Battleground final
Gyeong-su reveals the identity of Thanos in "001" 
I was born in 1998
Gyeong-su reveals his age to Thanos in "One More Game" 
Please
Gyeong-su begs Thanos to take him with him in "O X" 

Gallery
Gyeong-su's icon.Gyeong-su lined up to take his photo.Gyeong-su recognizes Thanos before taking his photo.Gyeong-su going to pose for the picture with Thanos.Gyeong-su tries to take a photo with Thanos, Nam-gyu and Thanos' fans.Gyeong-su climbs the stairs to the first game.Gyeong-su getting scanned by Young-hee.Gyeong-su behind Player 365 in Red Light, Green Light.Ditto, but in another angle.Ditto again.Gyeong-su approaching the finish line at Red Light, Green Light.Ditto.Gyeong-su running to the finish line.Gyeong-su running with Cho Hyun-ju, Nam-gyu, Lee Myung-gi, and Player 365 during Red Light, Green Light.Gyeong-su scared after the first game. (behind Thanos)Gyeong-su, Thanos and Nam-gyu seeing the ManagersGyeong-su, Thanos and Nam-gyu look at the Managers after the first game.Gyeong-su looking at the Piggy bank.Ditto.Ditto again but another view..Gyeong-su behind Thanos looking at the Piggy bank.Ditto.Gyeong-su, Thanos and Nam-gyu after the first game concluded.Gyeong-su receiving her O patch in the first round of voting.Ditto but in GIF.Gyeong-su, Thanos and Nam-gyu watching Im Jeong-dae about to vote.Gyeong-su, Thanos and Nam-gyu celebrating Player 004's vote.Gyeong-su watching Oh Young-il coming to vote.Gyeong-su looking at the votes.Gyeong-su celebrates Oh Young-il vote.Ditto.Gyeong-su happy to O win the vote.Gyeong-su and Nam-gyu follow Thanos, seen from afar.Gyeong-su and Nam-gyu follow Thanos in Six-Legged Pentathlon.Gyeong-su, Thanos and Nam-gyu watching Park Min-su at the Six-Legged Pentathlon.Gyeong-su in Six-Legged Pentathlon.Gyeong-su watching Thanos and Park Min-su at the Six-Legged Pentathlon.Gyeong-su half scared after the first two teams were eliminated.Gyeong-su watching as the guards take the two eliminated teams away.Gyeong-su sees Nam-gyu and Thanos talk.Nam-gyu tells Gyeong-su not to be afraid of winning.Gyeong-su, Se-mi, Park Min-su and Nam-gyu before playing Six-Legged Pentathlon.Gyeong-su with Thanos' team sitting at the Six-Legged Pentathlon.Gyeong-su spectating Hyun-ju's team.Gyeong-su completes Ddakji.Gyeong-su and Thanos' team After Ddakji.Gyeong-su with the rest of Thanos' team after the Six-Legged Pentathlon.Gyeong-su with Se-mi and Park Min-su looking at the Piggy bank After the second game.Gyeong-su looking at the Piggy bank.Gyeong-su watching Player 394 complaining about the results.Gyeong-su watching the guards tell him they are about to vote.Gyeong-su in the second Voting watching Park Min-su and Nam-gyu.Gyeong-su's O Vote.Gyeong-su receiving food.Ditto but in GIF.Gyeong-su, Thanos and Nam-gyu enter the bathroom.Gyeong-su, accompanies Thanos and Nam-gyu harassing Myung-gi in the bathroom.Gyeong-su leaves the bathroom together with Thanos and Nam-gyu.Gyeong-su climbs the stairs to the third game.Gyeong-su viewing the Mingle area.Gyeong-su enters Mingle area with Thanos' team.Gyeong-su in the first round of Mingle watching the area.Gyeong-su, Thanos and Nam-gyu in the first round of Mingle.Ditto.Ditto.Gyeong-su after they revealed the number in the first round of Mingle.Gyeong-su and Thanos' team arriving at a room in MingleGyeong-su watching Thanos and Nam-gyu dance in the second round of Mingle.Ditto.Gyeong-su in the 2nd round of MingleGyeong-su before Thanos knocks him down with a kick.Gyeong-su falling to the floor in Mingle after being shot.Gyeong-su's corpse.Gyeong-su's digital file.


Promotional
Gyeong-su in Red Light, Green Light.Gyeong-su runs on Red Light, Green Light.Ditto, but zoomed in on him.Gyeong-su looking at the Piggy bank.Gyeong-su, Thanos and Lee Myung-gi in the Bathrooms.Gyeong-su in a Thanos' team.Ditto.Gyeong-su in Six-Legged Pentathlon.
Behind the scenes
Gyeong-su ready to play Ddakji with Se-mi and Park Min-su in BTS Footage.Ditto, but in GIF.Gyeong-su playing Ddakji BTS footage.Gyeong-su with Park Min-su, Nam-gyu and Se-mi BTS.Gyeong-su with his team BTS footage.Gyeong-su with Thanos' team in Six-Legged Pentathlon in BTS Footage.Kang Sung-wook by Choi Seung-hyun Roh Jae-won. and Song Ji-woo Selfie BTS.Kang Sung-wook receiving flowers with Choi Seung-hyun and Kim Si-eun.


References


↑ "One More Game"

↑ Under the traditional Korean age system, which was changed in June 2023, a year is added to a person's age after birth, meaning he would be 27 in 2024. His age, as stated, is given in international years.

↑ The 37th Squid Game began directly after Seong Gi-hun met with the Front Man on October 31, with Mingle occurring on November 3.

↑ ""Keys and Knives"" 39:43

↑ "⭘△☐" 9:44

↑ https://youtu.be/s2Zw9ddHBz8?si=1vVpuxaattQT8gsG


Season Two37th Squid GameMain Characters
001
007
120
149
222
230
333
388
390
456
Major Characters
044
047
095
100
124
125
196
226
246
256
380
Supporting Characters
004
006
009
015
016
043
050
066
072
096
145
172
178
189
192
197
198
206
220
254
283
285
313
324
336
343
348
353
394
400
418
442
444
Minor Characters
031
039
045
067
080
084
135
140
165
185
188
199
202
203
209
216
237
238
239
249
257
260
263
270
286
306
308
328
331
350
355
371
384
395
401
415
416
435
448
453
454
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
Others
The Salesman
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Kang Eun-ji
Park Jung-bae
Ex-wifeM
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Chief Kim
Lee Ju-hong
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Mr. Kim
Choi Woo-seok
Lee Jang-uk
Hwang Jae-hun
Yun Jun-ho
Sea Captains
Sea Captain Park
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-wooN
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Hwang In-ho's wife
Kang Sae-byeokNP
Kang Sae-byeok's motherP
Kang Cheol
Park Mal-soon
Park Mi-yeong
Broker
Dentist