Title: Halloween Party
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Halloween_Party
--------------------------------------------------
Season Two


Bread and Lottery

Halloween Party

001

Six Legs

One More Game

O X

Friend or Foe

Anyone who died was simply a player who lost the game. Trash eliminated from the competition, and as we speak, our world is filling up with more and more trash. You still don't see, do you? If the world doesn't change, the game doesn't end.
Hwang In-ho to Seong Gi-hun 

Halloween Party





							Title
							
						



							Episode
							
						






















Season
Episode
Overall




2
2
11





Episode Information

Duration
51 minutes


Air Date
December 26, 2024


Writer
Hwang Dong-hyuk


Director
Hwang Dong-hyuk




Episode Guide


Previous
Next




"Bread and Lottery"
"001"





Halloween Party (할로윈 파티 Hallowin Pati?) is the 2nd episode in Season 2 of the Netflix TV series Squid Game. It is the 11th episode of the series overall.

Contents

1 Synopsis
2 Plot
3 Cast

3.1 Starring
3.2 Guest Starring
3.3 Co-Starring


4 Trivia
5 Mistakes
6 Gallery

6.1 Promotional images


7 References


Synopsis[]
Gi-hun finally gets hold of an invitation, marked for Halloween day. In a tense moment facing Jun-ho, they reveal their truths to each other.

—Official Netflix synopsis
Plot[]
     Seong Gi-hun following a manager.  
Hwang Jun-ho is parked in front of the Pink Motel, waiting for the moment to act, when suddenly he hears a shot (from The Recruiter killing himself). Jun-ho takes his gun, gets out of his car and enters the building, he sees that the elevator is on the 4th floor and goes up the stairs at full speed. Meanwhile, Seong Gi-hun looks at the corpse of the guy.
Jun-ho arrives at the 4th floor and begins to check the rooms, he reaches a closed room where moans are heard, Jun-ho uses a fire extinguisher to break the lock and finds Choi Woo-seok (in underwear, tied, blindfolded and gagged), Jun-ho removes the blindfold and gag from him and asks where Gi-hun is, to which Woo-seok tells him that in room 410. Gi-hun finds a card in the Recruiter's pocket when suddenly Jun-ho enters the room, Jun-ho sees the Recruiter's corpse and tells Gi-hun to put his hands up, Jun-ho takes Gi-hun's weapon, tells him that he is under arrest on suspicion of murder and tries to handcuff him, but then Woo-seok arrives and hits Jun-ho with the fire extinguisher, leaving the detective unconscious.
Gi-hun grabs his gun and asks Woo-seok who he is, Woo-seok asks Gi-hun if he is Mr. Seong Gi-hun, tells him his name and that he's one of the men of Kim Jeong-rae, then Woo-seok sees the corpse of The Recruiter and asks Mr. Seong if he killed him, Woo-seok insults the deceased jerk for murdering his boss, Woo-seok tells Gi-hun that he killed Mr. Kim when they played Rock Paper Scissors Minus One and regrets that his boss and friend sacrificed himself for him, Gi-hun looks at the card and sees that it says (October 31, Midnight, Club HDH).
In the parking lot of an amusement park, Kang No-eul, a entertainer of the park and North Korean defector, is sleeping in her car when she is woken up by a security guard. The guard asks No-eul why she is sleeping there, No-eul tells him that she works at the park and that she has to be there early the next day, the guard tells her that she can't park her car there to sleep, that he could get into trouble with his superiors and adds that he had seen her park there to sleep before, No-eul apologizes and she promises him to move her car the next day, the guard tells her not to do it again or he will report her, No-eul tells him that she is fine and the guard leaves.
At the Pink Motel, Woo-seok (having put on a robe from the Pink Motel) cleans up the Recruiter's blood while Gi-hun talks with Jun-ho (who has already regained consciousness and is handcuffed in the bathtub), Gi-hun sees Jun-ho's police badge and ID and recognizes him as the detective who went to look for him at his house, Jun-ho tells him that they've met twice, the first time was when he went to Gi-hun's house and the second time was on The Island, Jun-ho asks Gi-hun if he remembers the night of the Special Game in the Dormitory and that the Pink Guards came in to stop the riot, Gi-hun points his gun at him and asks him if he was one of the masked men, to which Jun-ho tells him that he infiltrated as a masked man to find his brother, Gi-hun asks him for a reason to believe him and Jun-ho tells him that one of the masked men asked him about Hwang In-ho, Jun-ho tells him that that was him and that Hwang In-ho is his brother, Gi-hun realizes that he is telling the truth and lowers his gun.
Jun-ho asks Gi-hun who The Recruiter was (believing that he killed him) and Gi-hun tells him that he was a recruiter who found players for the Squid Games and that he didn't kill him, that they simply played Russian roulette and he lost, Jun-ho asks him if he is still part of the game and Gi-hun tells him that he is trying to finish the game, Jun-ho asks him how he will do it and Gi-hun tells him that he will find In-ho (adding that he worked for Oh Il-nam), Gi-hun asks him if he knows who he is, Jun-ho says that the masked men call him "Front Man" and Gi-hun asks him if he saw him, but Jun-ho tells him no (despite having seen that he is In-ho) and that he was wearing a black mask, Jun-ho asks him how he is going to find Front Man, Gi-hun shows him the card and tells him that it is the invitation that Front Man sent, Jun-ho asks him that if he finds him, he will kill him, Gi-hun tells him that killing him will not end the game and that before Oh Il-nam died, he told him that he created the game for his clients, Jun-ho tells him that they're The VIPs and that he saw one of them.
Jun-ho tells Gi-hun to let him go and that he would help him find the masked men, Woo-seok tells Gi-hun not to trust Jun-ho and that he has never seen the police help people like them, Gi-hun tells Jun-ho that he is sorry about In-ho and suggests that he forget about the game, Jun-ho asks him if he would forget it and the people who died on the island, he tells him that he saw things that he didn't and that he can help him and Gi-hun finally accepts.
The 3 men go to a room and Woo-seok tells Gi-hun to reconsider trusting Jun-ho, he tells him that he once got scammed and lost all his money, he got so angry that he attacked the scammer, but the police stopped him and made him make a settle with the scammer, Woo-seok couldn't pay because the asshole took all his money, the police took him to prison and he asshole got away with it, which made him not trust the police. Arriving at the room, Gi-hun shows Jun-ho and Woo-seok his Prize money, showing that he won the game, Gi-hun says that all the money is what the players' deaths cost and he plans to use it to take down those bastards. Gi-hun tells Jun-ho and Woo-seok that if they help him, he'll give them whatever they want, but Jun-ho says he won't do it for money, Woo-seok says he won't either and that he wants to avenge Mr. Kim, Woo-seok mentions that the bastard of The Recruiter killed his boss in front of him, that he was like a brother to him and officiated his wedding, Woo-seok promises to kill all the masked men and brandishes a pistol, but Jun-ho tells him that there are armed forces on The Island and that they won't be able to fight with a few pistols, but fortunately, Gi-hun already has guns and leads both men to the bathroom of the room.
Gi-hun shows Jun-ho and Woo-seok his collection of guns, which cover the walls and fill the bathtub. Picking up a gun, Jun-ho questions if they work. In response, Gi-hun pulls back a curtain and walks through a knocked down wall, revealing a makeshift gun-range. At the end of the man-made hallway, is a wardrobe with the symbols of a circle, triangle and square. Gi-hun rapidly shoots at the targets, alarming Woo-seok. He offers the space as a practice room and suggests Jun-ho quits his job.
At the amusement park, No-eul works as an entertainer as part of the carnival. She wears a pink bunny costume, waving to children and handing out lollipops. Park Na-yeon is sad as she is skipped to receive a lollipop by the pig mascot. Upon seeing this, No-eul hands her one instead. In their dressing room, the entertainers complain about working in the heat. No-eul stares in the mirror, unsatisfied. Na-yeon opens the door to the dressing room and the workers all hurry to replace their mascot heads. She walks up to No-eul and hands her a crayon drawing of herself and No-eul as the bunny. As No-eul responds with a heart, Na-yeon asks if she is hurt upon seeing her scars on her wrist, presumably from self-harm. The man in the pig costume walks in without his mascot head on and starts to swear and complain, causing Na-yeon to cry. Na-yeon's father, Park Gyeong-seok, calls out for her and apologises for the intrusion. After they leave, the man in the pig costume explains that Na-yeon is the daughter of Gyeong-seok, an artist who draws people's portraits in the park, and that she has blood cancer and is in need of a bone marrow transplant.
Discreetly, Gi-hun watches Sang-woo's mother working at the fish store. He sees Kang Cheol arrive who calls her "Grandma" and they chat together.
Visiting the broker, he explains to Gi-hun that Sae-byeok's mother was recently released from a prison camp in North Hamgyong Province; she never received proper treatment for her tuberculosis and will be unable to move for a while. He urges him to get her here as soon as possible to which the broker assures him that as soon as she recovers, they will. Gi-hun hands him a slip of paper with the fish store's phone number on it, explaining that is where Sae-byeok's brother, Kang Cheol is, and tells him to contact them if he cannot get ahold of Gi-hun himself. As he leaves, No-eul arrives who enquires about finding her child, as she rejects the notion that she is dead. The broker is annoyed at No-eul's insistence as there is little evidence she is alive. She hands him an envelope of money, urging him to look for her "one last time". He rejects No-eul's money, empathetically suggesting she should forget about her daughter. 
In her car outside, No-eul stares at a picture of herself, her daughter and her husband and cries. She takes out a pill bottle, empties it and swallows all the pills. A man knocks on her window, however it is not the police officer from before. She rolls down her window and the man hands her a small invitation card with the three symbols on it.
On the phone to his mother, Park Mal-soon, Jun-ho arrives at the place where Hwang In-ho's wife is buried. She argues that if he is alive, he would've visited her grave on the anniversary of her death. Jun-ho replaces the dead flowers and stares at a picture of In-ho and his wife, knowing his true identity as the Front Man. At their home, his mother asks if In-ho visited, to which Jun-ho replies no. As they haven't heard from him in years, Mal-soon resigns to thinking he doesn't want them in his life anymore. She blames herself for In-ho's disappearance, stating that she couldn't do anything for him when he wife got sick and worries he resents her for favoring Jun-ho over him, as he is her step-son. 
Na-yeon, back at the carnival, looks for No-eul. However, as a different entertainer is in the bunny costume, they do not give Na-yeon a lollipop and doesn't acknowledge her at all. She is visibly upset by this. No-eul hands in her resignation, stating she is quitting for personal reasons, thanks her employer and leaves. An ambulance drives past Park Gyeong-seok as he is drawing and realises it's for Na-yeon. Na-yeon, having fallen unconscious, is taken to the hospital with her father. No-eul watches the ambulance drive off and picks up the strawberry hat Na-yeon was wearing that she left behind. 
At the Pink Motel, a dentist replaces Gi hun's tooth with a fake one with a tracker installed – Woo-seok pays him to keep quiet however someone is seen watching them as the dentist leaves.
In the hospital, the doctor tells Gyeong-seok about a new medication that may be beneficial to Na-yeon as a cancer patient, however it is not yet covered by insurance. Gyeong-seok insists he will get the money somehow, urging him to help his daughter. No-eul arrives and enters Na-yeon's room - she is unconscious and under an oxygen mask. When Gyeong-seok returns, No-eul is gone, but Na-yeon's strawberry hat is placed on her bed.
At the makeshift gun-range, Woo-seok raves about the men he's found to aide Gi-hun's plan as they shoot at the targets. He's found people who were in the Marine Corps, the UDT and the ROK Special Forces. Woo-seok explains that only he and Gi-hun will enter the club and the men will be on standby, to which Jun-ho questions whether they will let them in. He wants to go with Gi-hun instead, but Gi-hun refuses, as Jun-ho's face was exposed on the island and could potentially be recognised, putting the entire operation in jeopardy. Gi-hun calls his daughter, Seong Ga-yeong, who answers but he cannot bring himself to speak. 
Sat by a fire, No-eul rings the number on the card she was given and confirms her participation. As she is given the details of where she will be picked up, she burns the card, and, with some hesitation, the drawing Na-yeon made for her.

At Club HDH, Gi-hun, Woo-seok and Jun-ho sit in a parked car, preparing to enter the building. Jun-ho affirms the description of the Front Man to Gi-hun, who is determined to find him. As Gi-hun and Woo-seok enter the club, Jun-ho tracks Gi-hun's location via the tracker in his fake tooth. Seeing the pink guards enter the club, Jun-ho exits the car and attempts to warn them. Gi-hun separates from Woo-seok, choosing to follow one of the pink guards. Woo-seok attempts to follow them but gets cornered by the second guard. Gi-hun follows the pink guard to a white limousine, which he enters. Seeing it drive off, Jun-ho alerts the gunmen to follow it, attempting to catch the Front Man.Why the hesitation? Are you getting cold feet? Worried you'll lose to me like Oh Il-nam? He didn't want to admit it, not even as he laid there on his deathbed. He knew someone had to help that man on the street, but he refused to look out the window. It didn't matter. The moment he drew his last breath, I could tell  that he'd finally, realized he'd lost.
Gi-hun challenging Hwang In-ho In the limo, the Front Man talks to Gi-hun via a golden pig. He tells him he'd hoped Gi-hun would forget everything and live a happy life and reiterates that he should've gotten on the plane. Gi-hun enjoins him to stop the games, but the Front Man dismisses him, saying that "The games will not end unless the world changes". Gi-hun rejects this and criticizes the Front Man's manipulative tactics of preying on vulnerable people. Jun-ho orders the gunmen to stop the limo, however both of the vans tires get shot by a sniper. With both vans gone, he attempts to follow the limo himself but unbeknownst to him, there is a bomb strapped under his car, which explodes, causing the limo to get away. Hearing this commotion over his earpiece, Gi-hun pulls out a gun and tells the Front Man to stop the car. He shoots but the divider between the driver and the passenger seats is bullet proof. The Front Man derides his naivety, and Gi-hun commands to be put back in the game. The Front Man questions this, but Gi-hun convinces him to agree by arguing the VIPs who watch will be thrilled to have a previous winner return. He instructs him to take him to the games to which the Front Man taunts him for "playing the hero". Gi-hun replies "I'll show you that the world doesn't always go the way you want it to." The Front Man finally agrees and gas is released, knocking Gi-hun out. The last thing he sees is the Front Man's black mask and him welcoming him back into the game.
No-eul drives to the meeting place, exits her car and enters a shipping container on a lorry, with others doing the same. She reaches her room marked "011" and takes her place inside. As she puts on her mask, it is revealed that she is entering the games as a pink guard, not a player.

Cast[]
Starring[]
Lee Jung-jae as Seong Gi-hun
Lee Byung-hun as the Front Man/Hwang In-ho
Wi Ha-joon as Hwang Jun-ho
Lee Jin-wook as Park Gyeong-seok
Park Gyu-young as Kang No-eul

Guest Starring[]
Gong Yoo as the Recruiter (K.I.A.)
Sung Do-hyun as Mercenary Team Leader Kim
Kim Pub-lae as Kim Jeong-rae, a loan shark leader (K.I.A./mentioned)
Jeon Seok-ho as Choi Woo-seok
Choi Jae-sup as the Broker
Jo A-in as Seong Ga-yeong, Gi-hun's daughter (voice)
Kang Mal-geum as Kang Eun-ji, Gi-hun's former wife and mother of Seong Ga-yeong (voice)
Co-Starring[]
Jung Ho-yeon as Kang Sae-byeok (photo frame only)
Lee Joo-sil as Park Mal-soon
Park Hye-jin as Cho Sang-woo's mother
Park Si-wan as Kang Cheol
Park Ye-bom as Park Na-yeon
Joo Suk-in as Attraction Park Employee #1
Jo Ah-young as Attraction Park Employee #2
Shim Woo-sung as Manager
Hong Seok-yeon as Security Guard
Yoon Tak as the Dentist
Ji Soo-han as the Club Bouncer
Jung Jong-yul as Doctor
Trivia[]
The episode takes place during October 31, which is also Gi-hun's birthday, being his 50th birthday, since he was born on October 31, 1974.
This is the only episode of the series with no deaths.
This is the only episode in Season 2 not to feature Kim Jun-hee and Lee Myung-gi.
This is also the final episode of the series not to feature Lee Myung-gi.
The music plays in the Club HDH was First Act by Serg Underground.
This episode, along with Hell from season 1, are the only episodes in which no game appears (this includes small games like Russian Roulette or interludes like Special Game)
The thumbnail of this episode was changed, being previously a picture of Gi-hun finding a Manager in the club to No-eul reading the business card next to a campfire.
The season 2 episode 2 of another popular Netflix show, Stranger Things, also revolves around a Halloween party.
During Gyeong-seok running into unconscious Na-yeon being taken to an ambulance in Seoul Land, some of statues of characters of Tickety Toc (which originally in Korean) specifically, Tallulah, Pufferty, and Madame Au Lait can be briefly seen. However, this can’t counted as references, because the statues did exist in real life Seoul Land.
Mistakes[]
Some fans caught the Recruiter opening his eyes during the act in a split moment.
Gallery[]
Promotional images[]

References[]
Squid GameSeason 1
Red Light, Green Light
Hell
The Man with the Umbrella
Stick to the Team
A Fair World
Gganbu
VIPS
Front Man
One Lucky Day
Season 2
Bread and Lottery
Halloween Party
001
Six Legs
One More Game
O X
Friend or Foe
Season 3
Keys and Knives
The Starry Night
It's Not Your Fault
222
⭘△☐
Humans Are...