Title: Homeless Man (Bread or Lottery)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Homeless_Man_(Bread_or_Lottery)
--------------------------------------------------
Contents

1 Bread and Lottery

1.1 Airport taxi driver
1.2 Boy in bathroom
1.3 Police officer
1.4 Kim Ji-seok's girlfriend
1.5 Motel couple
1.6 Kim's subordinates
1.7 Subway civilians
1.8 Nurse
1.9 Confectionery shop clerk
1.10 Shopkeeper
1.11 Homeless people
1.12 Seoul taxi driver
1.13 Rental car employee


2 Halloween Party

2.1 Security guard
2.2 Blue mascot
2.3 Red mascot
2.4 Jester
2.5 Mascots
2.6 Portrait artists
2.7 Good samaritan
2.8 Paramedic
2.9 Doctor
2.10 DJ
2.11 Clubgoer
2.12 Bouncer


3 001

3.1 Fisherman


4 References


Bread and Lottery[]
Airport taxi driver[]
     
A man who picked up Seong Gi-hun outside Incheon International Airport in his taxicab in 2022. When the driver asked Gi-hun would like to go, the latter paused for a while and said "to Seoul". The taxi driver then said "alright" and drove off.
He is portrayed by actor Jung Yoon-young and credited as "Taxi driver (Airport)".


Boy in bathroom[]
     
A young boy who found Seong Gi-hun in a bathroom in Seoul, naked and bloodied around the ear after removing a tracking device from behind his ear. The pair then stared at each other awkwardly for a moment before Gi-hun apologized, asking for the boy to wait at least five more minutes for him to be finished with what he was doing. The boy then slowly nodded and then left quietly.
He is portrayed by child actor Hong Ji-wan.


Police officer[]
     
A traffic cop who was assigned as the partner of former detective Hwang Jun-ho, who was now working as a traffic cop. He is implied to be a rookie.
He and Jun-ho carried out traffic stops on a motorcyclist and his girlfriend, and Seong Gi-hun when they caught him speeding. In the second step, Jun-ho then told the officer to tackle this one in his own, advising him to not be "unkind", not entertain the speeder too much, and to "just be polite and professional". The officer then approached Gi-hun's vehicle, took and scanned his ID, and gave him a ₩60,000 speeding fine. Before he could finish his sentence, Gi-hun took his ID and drove off.
After this, Jun-ho approached the officer, asking if he'd done everything right as the interaction had gone a lot quicker than he thought it would. When the police officer tells Jun-ho that Gi-hun just sped away, Jun-ho noted that that behaviour was "suspicious", asking the police officer if he'd looked up Gi-hun's ID. The police officer revealed that he had, but nothing had come up, and that Gi-hun's car had "a lot of cell phones and tablets".
The officer is portrayed by actor Jeon Bong-seok.


Kim Ji-seok's girlfriend[]
     The girlfriend.  
A woman was the girlfriend of Kim Ji-seok, a motorcyclist who was stopped by Hwang Jun-ho and his partner. During the stop, she hopped off the motorcycle and asked Jun-ho to just let them go as she was wearing a helmet. When he refused, she then called him "really hot", after which he threatened to charge her with obstruction. She then called him a "tough cookie" and walked over to his side, taking a selfie with him.
As Jun-ho delivered a fine to her boyfriend, she asked him for permission to post the selfie online and inquired if he had Instagram as well. However, this exasperated her boyfriend, who drove off without her after receiving the fine. When she asked him wear he was going, he told her to ask Jun-ho for a ride, leaving her chasing after him as he went back to driving away without her.
The motorcyclist's girlfriend is portrayed by Kang Yeo-jung.


Motel couple[]
     The man.  
     The woman.  
A young man and woman who stumbled across the Pink Motel while looking for a place to stay the night in the Banghak-dong neighbourhood of Seoul. Not knowing that its true purpose, the man went to open the door but found it locked, and then began knocking, hoping to attract someone's attention.
The woman then asked if they could stay elsewhere, calling the motel "a dump", and the man then remarked that all of the lights in the building were off, wondering if the business was closed. The woman then said that meant the motel was fully-occupied, and the man questioned how she would know that, sarcastically calling her a "motel expert". She in turn called him a "dick", pointing out that he said that he liked how she "knew everything". As she walked off without him, the man asked her to just tell him how she knew, wondering if her ex-boyfriend had told her.
The man is portrayed by Ha Young-son, and the woman is portrayed by Son Da-yeon.


Kim's subordinates[]
     The subordinates.  
Several men who were members of Kim Jeong-rae's gangs of loansharks. 
When Seong Gi-hun, one of their clients/victims, resurfaced with billions of won, claiming to have survived a death game, he approached Kim and his men to track down the game's recruiter. Though the men were initially skeptical, Kim pointed out that Seong had gone from being deeply in debt to being far richer than all of them. He also noted that many of their clients/victims had disappeared without a trace throughout the years and that the money Gi-hun was offering allowed him to keep the business afloat. This interaction implies that there was at least some level of camaraderie amongst the men and their boss.
Woo-seok gathered the men and told them to look out for a man in the subway playing Ddakji with people and slapping them if they lost. He presented them with a mannequin bearing a generalisation of his appearance, as well as an example of a card which he gave to people for recruiting. After this, the men rushed out into the subway system, going through every station, taking photos in each and every one of them to confirm to Gi-hun that it had been checked.
Three of the subordinates are portrayed by Lee Woon-san, Choi Yoon-bin and Hwang Jae-hoon. The latter two had also appeared as loan sharks in the Season 1 episode Red Light, Green Light.


Subway civilians[]
     The first man.  
     The third man.  
Three men either on or waiting to board the South Korean subway system were shown having the belongings checked by Kim Jeong-rae's men. The first and third both asked who the men were. The first was standing in the subway and had a bag slung over his shoulder though the men quickly left him alone once they realised that he did not match the description of the recruiter. The second appeared to be a businessman and was sitting on a seat in the subway Kim took his briefcase from him and began examining its contents. As the man attempted to reach for his bag, Woo-seok sat him back down, telling him that they were just performing a quick check. The briefcase was presumably returned after. The third also appeared to be a standard suited businessman with a briefcase. He was standing in queue for the subway when one of Kim's men grabbed his briefcase and began dumping its contents on the ground as another prevented him from approaching.
All three are uncredited, though the second is known to have been portrayed by extra Jang Dae-hyun, who also portrayed Player 080. Though it is possible that these are meant to be the same character, it seems more likely that the show's creators were simply reusing extras from the games, as Jang is not the only example of a player-portraying extra who appears outside of the games.


Nurse[]
     The nurse.  
A woman was a nurse working at an gynecology clinic in Seoul who called for Kim Jun-hee in the waiting room. However, nobody responded and she did not appear to be present. When no one responded, the nurse went to the next name on the list.
The nurse wears a name tag that is indiscernible.


Confectionery shop clerk[]
     The confectionery shop clerk.  
A woman who works at a confectionery shop somewhere in Seoul. When the Salesman puts down a tray with a pile of pastries in front of her, she asks incredulously if he is going to buy all that.
The clerk is portrayed by Gu Yu-jin. She wears a name tag that is largely indiscernible.


Shopkeeper[]
     The shopkeeper.  
A man working in a shop where the Salesman buys a hundred scratch-off tickets. He remarks that he must've had good dreams.
He is portrayed by Oh Hyun-soo.


Homeless people[]
     The first homeless man the Recruiter approaches.  
     Another homeless man who speaks to the Recruiter after he dumps his bread.  
Several homeless people, mostly men, who appeared to rest and sleep in a spot near the pavilion in the historic Tapgol Park, a public park located in Seoul.
In 2024, the Salesman approached several of these people, offering them a piece of bread and a lottery ticket and forcing them to choose one. When a person picked the lottery ticket, which many did, he gave them a coin to scratch off the ticket with, and asked for the coin back when they failed to win.
After he was done, he then dumped all of the remaining bread on the ground, and began maniacally stomping all of the excess bread, blaming the homeless people for the waste. This was also witnessed by Kim Jeong-rae and Choi Woo-seok.
The first homeless man who is approached is portrayed by actor Shin Young-ok. Another homeless man who tries to speak to the Salesman is portrayed by Ju Geun-yang.


Seoul taxi driver[]
     The taxi driver.  
A taxi driver who was flagged down by Choi Woo-seok and Kim Jeong-rae on a street next to Tapgol Park. The two dashed into the cab and Woo-seok hurriedly asked the taxi driver to follow the orange cab in front of them. When the driver appeared confused, Woo-seok offered to pay him double if he could keep up with the cab, after which he said "Alright!" and began chasing the cab.
As the orange cab entered narrower streets and alleyways, Woo-seok and Jeong-rae began giving him directions. After the recruiter got off of his cab, Woo-seok and Jeong-rae asked to be dropped off. The pair then rushed out off the cab as Woo-seok paid the driver.
The taxi driver is portrayed by actor Lee Hyung-seok. He is credited as "Taxi driver (chase)".


Rental car employee[]
     The rental car employee.  
A woman employed at Isaac Car Rentals who worked at the front desk. In 2024, she was approached by Hwang Jun-ho, who inquired about one of the company's cars which he had ID'ed. After looking the car up, she informed him that it was currently being rented by a company called Sunshine Capital.
She is portrayed by actress Lee Na-hyun. Her character wears a name tag, which is indiscernible onscreen.


Halloween Party[]
Security guard[]
      
A security guard at Seoul Land who tells Kang No-eul to leave the premises after he finds her sleeping in her car. He tells her that he will get in trouble if his superiors find out.
He is portrayed by Hong Seok-yeon.


Blue mascot[]
Who is she?
The blue mascot asking the pig mascot about Na-yeon. in "Halloween Party"
     The blue mascot  
This unnamed mascot was an employee who wore a costume of a character wearing blue.
She had been resting in the break room with her costume's 'head' off as several of her colleagues entered the room. She agreed to going out to get some drinks after work at a newly-opened establishment located near the park. Soon after, a little girl snuck in to the break room, which prompted her and the rest of the mascots to put their 'heads' back on. She watched as the girl approached No-eul, the bunny mascot, to gift a drawing. However, her colleague in the pig costume suddenly entered the break room cursing and swearing with his 'head' off, which caused the little girl to start crying. Her father then appeared and took her away.
When her colleague in the pig costume remarked that he was surprised that the girl was out of the hospital, she asked him who she was. Her colleague informed her that the girl was the daughter of one of the park's artists and that she had blood cancer and was awaiting a bone marrow transplant.
She is portrayed by actress Jo A-young.


Red mascot[]
God, it's hot. Turn up the AC!
The red complaining about the air conditioning in the break room. in "Halloween Party"
     The red mascot.  
This unnamed mascot was an employee who were a costume of a humanlike character wearing red, presumably the counterpart to the blue mascot.
As she entered the break room with her costumes 'head' off, she complained about how weak the room's air conditioning was, upset as she had spent a long while out in the hot weather in the costume, wondering when the air conditioning in the room would be fixed. She agreed to going out to get some drinks after work at a newly-opened establishment located near the park.
However,  little girl then snuck in to the break room. This prompted her and the rest of the mascots to put their 'heads' back on. She watched as the girl approached No-eul, the bunny mascot, to gift a drawing. However, her colleague in the pig costume suddenly entered the break room cursing and swearing with his 'head' off, which caused the little girl to start crying. Her father then appeared and took her away, after which she returned to relaxing.
She is portrayed by actress Go Min-ji, who is credited as "Puppetry staff".


Jester[]
Man, why is the AC here so weak? Damn it.
The jester complaining about the air conditioning in the break room. in "Halloween Party"
     The Jester.  
     The Jester with his head in his hands as his colleague makes a kid cry.  
This unnamed mascot was an employee who wore a Jester costume.
As he entered the break room with his Jester hat off, he complained about how weak the room's air conditioning was, upset as he had spent a long while out in the hot weather in the costume, wondering when the air conditioning in the room would be fixed. He and his colleagues agreed to go out for drinks after work at a newly-opened established located near the park, as they were not busy after work. He then remarked on how exhausted he was.
However, a little girl then snuck in to the break room. This prompted him to put his Jester hat back on and go back to acting. He watched as the girl approached No-eul, the bunny mascot, to gift a drawing. However, his colleague in the pig costume suddenly entered the break room cursing and swearing with his 'head' off, which caused the little girl to start crying. Her father then appeared and took her away, after which the jester returned to relaxing.
He is portrayed by actor Yoo Baek-nyeon, who is credited as "Puppetry staff".


Mascots[]
     8 of the performers as Na-yeon sneaks in.  
     Another performer walking in along with the pig mascot.  
     Several performers in the Mardis Gras Parade.  
The amusement parks had several other mascots, including a tiger mascot, an elf mascot, a mascot wearing a green dress and a mascot wearing a pink dress. They were present in the break room before Na-yeon entered. There was also a cape-wearing mascot who entered the break room along with the pig mascot.
There are also several mascots who are seen in the parade but not in the break room, including several women donned in festive wear at either side of the parade vehicles, several people wearing clown makeup, a woman dressed in a purple outfit walking alongside a vehicle, and a woman and a man wearing striped outfits on the parade vehicle on either side of the elf.
None of them appear to have had lines, at least in the final cut, and all of them, save for two who were portrayed by actors Jang Geon-hee and Ahn Yoon-jung credited as "Puppetry staff", appear to have been played by extras who were not credited.


Portrait artists[]
     The portrait painters  
The park employed at least five other portrait painters, all of whom were seen seated to the right of Gyeong-seok painting portraits of visitors.
None of them had lines and all were portrayed by extras who were not credited. In the final episode, the painter to the left of Gyeong-seok was portrayed by director Hwang Dong-hyuk.


Good samaritan[]
     The good samaritan.  
A man who visited an amusement part called Seoul Land in 2024. While there, he came across a little girl, Park Na-yeon, who had fallen unconscious while wandering around the park alone and called an ambulance. He then carried her in his arms and rushed towards the park entrance, where he handed her over to the arriving paramedics. He then watched as Park Gyeong-seok ran to the ambulance, instructing the paramedics to go to Seohyeon University Hospital, and climbed inside before the ambulance drove off.


Paramedic[]
     The paramedic.  
A paramedic who responded to call in Seoul Land amusement park after Park Na-yeon was found unconscious. The paramedic took Na-yeon from a man carrying her and inquired about the girl shortly before her father, Park Gyeong-seok, ran over after noticing Na-yeon in the paramedic's arms. After he confirmed to the paramedic that the girl was his daughter and listening to his instructions, he got into the back of the ambulance with Gyeong-seok as the ambulance drove away from the park.
The paramedic is portrayed by Yoon Kyeom.


Doctor[]
     The doctor.  
A doctor working at Seohyeon University Hospital who oversaw Park Na-yeon after she was hospitalized. She was treated after arriving and appeared to be in a stable condition by evening, after which the doctor informed Gyeong-seok that there was a new medication that had just come out which would greatly aid Na-yeon's condition. He noted that the medicine was not yet covered by insurance and was thus costly, to which Gyeong-seok promised the doctor that he'd find the money somehow. The doctor then told him to come back tomorrow, when he'd explain the details. He also ran some tests on Na-yeon.
He is portrayed by actor Jeong Jong-yeol.


DJ[]
     The DJ.  
A DJ who was disc jockeying at a nightclub called Club HDH on Halloween night in 2024.
The DJ was portrayed by Schedule 1, who is a real-life DJ. He does not have any spoken lines.


Clubgoer[]
     The clubgoer  
A clubgoer at Club HDH, a nightclub located in the vicinity of Yeouido in the city of Seoul, who went clubbing on Halloween in 2024. He wore a grim reaper costume, comprised of a black hooded outfit, a sickle, and a black mask. When Seong Gi-hun saw him standing still in a crowd, he approached him from behind, suspecting him to be the Front Man.
The man turned around to find Gi-hun staring at him oddly and took off his mask to ask Gi-hun why he was staring at him and if they knew each other. When Gi-hun didn't respond, the man turned around, exclaiming "What the fuck."
The clubgoer is portrayed by actor Son Yu-seong.[1]


Bouncer[]
     The bouncer.  
A man employed as a bouncer at Club HDH, who was working on Halloween night in 2024. When Hwang Jun-ho dashed toward the nightclub entrance, hoping to catch the Squid Game guards, the bouncer stopped him and told him to go to the back of the line. When Jun-ho informed the bouncer that he was a policeman, the bouncer did not believe him, sarcastically remarking that there were several 'police officers' in line, gesturing towards the numerous people dressed in police costumes, asking him to "put on his uniform first". Jun-ho then retrieved his gun and pinned the bouncer against the wall, pointing the gun against him and asking "Does this look like a toy?" The bouncer then moved aside as Jun-ho entered the club.
The bouncer is portrayed by actor Ji Su-han.


001[]
Fisherman[]
     The fisherman.  
A man who fished, presumably as a hobby. One morning in October 2024, he was about to leave for an island by boat to fish when he was approached by a man, who offered him 'leftover bait'. He took it, not knowing that it contained Seong Gi-hun's tracker, which had been removed from underneath his tooth.
Later, he was approached by a group of armed mercenaries and Choi Woo-seok. Woo-seok then approached him and showed his phone pointing the tracker to the fisherman's location and began searching his bait. Confused, the fisherman began questioning them, asking them who they were as two mercenaries grabbed him from either side and a third pointed an assault rifle at his face. Eventually, Woo-seok found the tracker inside the bait. When they asked the fisherman where he had gotten the bait from, he told them how he'd gotten, after which Woo-seok realized that they had been found out.
The fisherman is portrayed by actor Jang Kyug-su.


References[]

↑ https://www.instagram.com/p/DEE5yTYPPwJ/?img_index=1