Title: Honeycomb
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Honeycomb
--------------------------------------------------
Dalgona





							Circle
							
						



							Triangle
							
						



							Star
							
						



							Umbrella
							
						



							Keyhole
							
						



							Nightmare
							
						















































Game Information

Game No.
2


Teams?
No


Appears in:
"The Man with the Umbrella" "Six Legs"



For the game, see Sugar Honeycombs.
A Dalgona (달고나 Dalgona?), also known as a Honeycomb, is a candy that has been popular in South Korea for decades. A challenge associated with the candy involves perfectly carving out the shape in the candy.
The dalgonas are featured in Sugar Honeycombs, the second game in the 33rd Squid Game, which involved a deadly version of the aforementioned challenge. It appears in Season 2 in Gi-hun’s nightmare as a difficult version of the triangle shape in Six Legs.

Season One[]
Dalgonas appear in the 33rd Squid Game in The Man with the Umbrella during the second game. Players had to chose between four shapes: circle, triangle, star, and umbrella, without knowing the game.
Cho Sang-woo who recognized the shapes and remembered what Kang Sae-byeok told him about seeing them heating sugar, and Byeong-gi, who was told about the next game, both recognized the game.

CircleTriangleStarUmbrellaKeyhole (only appeared in Cho Sang-woo's recollection)
Season Two[]
     The triangle shape seen in Gi-hun's nightmare in Season 2.  
A dalgona once again appears in Seong Gi-hun's dream sequence. All the players picked the triangle thinking it was the easiest, only to find out that it is the most complex shape ever as soon as Gi-hun removes the lid. The players start to panic and blame Gi-hun for choosing the shape, saying that he was going to kill them all. Gi-hun wakes up afterwards. Still thinking the second game might be dalgona to Gi-hun's surprise, the second game turned out to be the Six-Legged Pentathlon.
The shape is based on the Sierpiński triangle. It is dubbed by the Squid Game community as the "Mona Lisa" due to its complexity.

Trivia[]
The original Korean name for this game is "설탕 뽑기입니다", though many people translate it as "달고나"