Title: Humans Are...
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Humans_Are...
--------------------------------------------------
Season Three


Keys and Knives

The Starry Night

It's Not Your Fault

222

⭘△☐

Humans Are...




Humans Are...





							Title
							
						



							Episode
							
						






















Season
Episode
Overall




3
6
22





Episode Information

Duration
55 minutes


Air Date
June 27, 2025


Writer
Hwang Dong-hyuk


Director
Hwang Dong-hyuk




Episode Guide


Previous




"⭘△☐"






We are not horses. We are humans. And humans are...
Seong Gi-hun's final words before committing suicide 
Humans Are... (사람은 Sarameun?) is the 6th and final episode in Season 3 of the Netflix TV series Squid Game. It is the twenty-second and final episode of the series overall.

Contents

1 Synopsis
2 Plot
3 Starring

3.1 Main
3.2 Recurring actors
3.3 Guest
3.4 Files


4 Deaths
5 Trivia
6 Quotes
7 References


Synopsis[]
As Jun-ho races to The Island, tensions peak in the final round, as Gi-hun faces his biggest challenge yet.

—Official Netflix synopsis
Plot[]
After killing the Pink Guards who were chasing Park Gyeong-seok, Hwang Jun-ho and Kim get on Gyeong-seok's motorboat and point their guns at him; thinking Gyeong-seok is a masked man. Gyeong-seok begs Jun-ho and Kim not to kill him, tells them that he's not a Pink Guard and that he was trying to escape from them. Jun-ho sees that Gyeong-seok is injured in the abdomen and he remembers the scanners the Guards used to check identities, so he grabs Gyeong-seok's scanner to check his identity and the scanner identifies Gyeong-seok as Player 246; showing Jun-ho that Gyeong-seok is telling him the truth and he's a Player. Jun-ho asks Gyeong-seok if he was a Player in the Squid Games, to which Gyeong-seok tells him yes and that he barely managed to escape from that hellish place. Jun-ho asks Gyeong-seok if he knows where the island is, Gyeong-seok points toward the fog and they see the island right in front of them.
Meanwhile, Seong Gi-hun, Lee Myung-gi and Kim Jun-hee's baby are the 3 Finalists of the games and they are tasked with moving across the Sky Squid Game bridge to the final pillar. However, Myung-gi makes it to the other pillar first and prevents Gi-hun from crossing unless he gives him the baby, which Gi-hun refuses to do. A Manager asks the Front Man for help regarding the Coast Guard's imminent arrival to the island after it is discovered by Jun-ho. Meanwhile, Kang No-eul is seen in the Front Man's archives pouring lighter fluid on Player 246's archive and setting it on fire. Out on the motorboat, Jun-ho tells Kim to inform the coast guard of everything about the island while he himself sets out to infiltrate it in pursuit of his brother.
During the final round of the final game, the confrontation between Gi-hun and Myung-gi decides the winner of Squid Game, it begins when Myung-gi (Player 333) holds the metal rod at Gi-hun and tells him to give the baby to him, and Gi-hun responds saying that Myung-gi should eliminate Gi-hun instead, Myung-gi calls out that statement as a lie and that Gi-hun will kill him and take the money for himself. 
Gi-hun continues to tell Myung-gi that he should save himself, but Myung-gi continues accusing him of lies. Gi-hun tells him the promise he made to Jun-hee that he would protect the baby at all costs and Myung-gi calls him out asking him if he was trying to plan something with Jun-Hee and then Gi-hun reminds him there isn't much time to cross the bridge and Myung-gi tells him to put the baby down.  
Gi-hun begins slowly laying the baby on the bridge and then Myung-gi tells him to step back, and he grabs the baby with a metal rod and picks the baby up by the knotted sleeves of the tracksuit. Myung-gi slowly backs up to the next pillar and as Myung-gi is looking down at the baby. Gi-hun grabs a knife from deceased Player 203's chest. The timer stops and the bridge begins retracting into the holes in the pillars and Gi-hun sprints towards the bridge and jumps and breakfalls on the other pillar that Myung-gi is on. Gi-hun pulls out his knife and Myung-gi pulls out the metal rod.  
Myung-gi begins swinging the metal rod at Gi-hun but he evades all of the attacks then he gets kicked in the stomach by Myung-gi and he falls to the ground, right as that happens Myung-gi attempts to hit him while he is vulnerable, but Gi-hun rolls out of the way and then Myung-gi hits again as Gi-hun stands up but he blocks it with his arm ultimately causing him to drop the knife from his hand, just as Myung-gi thrusts towards Gi-hun with the metal rod, the button meant to begin the final round pops out of the center of the pillar, this button initiates deaths as eliminations. Gi-hun grabs the end of the rod as Myung-gi is distracted and he throws it off the edge of the pillar. Myung-gi after seeing the pole fall attempts to go for the knife but Gi-hun grabs him by the back of his shirt and begins punching Myung-gi in the face. Gi-hun then goes for the knife but Myung-gi sprints towards the baby and grabs it by the knot and holds the baby over the edge of the pillar and threatens to drop the baby off the pillar if Gi-hun gets any closer to him. Myung-gi emotionally breaks down and tells Gi-hun to drop the knife.
Gi-hun drops the knife unhesitatingly and backs away from the knife as Myung-gi commands. Myung-gi puts the baby on the ground and runs towards the knife and as that occurs Gi-hun covers his hand with a suit to suppress any blows. They struggle for a moment and then Myung-gi slices a shallow cut into Gi-hun's chest and then he raises the knife and stabs into Gi-hun's hand, as Myung-gi pulls the knife out of his hand and attempts the next blow, he rolls off the pillar with Gi-hun and they hang on the side of it thanks to Gi-hun grabbing onto a handle on the side of the pillar and Myung-gi desperately clings onto the Gi-hun's suit; as Myung-gi attempts to climb up the suit, he loses his grip and is now clung to the sleeve of the suit. Despite Gi-hun's attempts to help Myung-gi, he falls to his death as the sleeve fabric finally rips in half.  
Gi-hun looks down in horror and drops the rest of the suit to grip onto the handle. The VIPs watch the circular pillar and VIP Jack notices someone is climbing back up, VIP Jennifer realizes it's Player 456 and VIP Richard asks if no one has ever won the Squid Games twice, knowing that Gi-hun has the perfect opportunity. Gi-hun turns to look at the button and realizes that since it's just him and the baby left, one of them will have to die.
Jun-ho enters the island via an underwater entrance. No-eul reads her entry in the Front Man's archives and finds out that both her husband and child are dead. 
A coast guard vessel arrives at the island. No-eul lights the entire archive on fire and holds her gun up to her chin, planning on ending her life after finding out the news about her family. Gi-hun begins walking towards the baby and clicks the button while walking up to the baby, he picks up the baby and walks to the edge of the pillar. Upon seeing Gi-hun holding the baby, No-eul hesitates to pull the trigger of her gun. One of the VIPs tells him to end the game while the other VIP says that some goodbyes take time. Gi-hun begins staring out towards the beyond area and thinking and then turns around and lowers to kiss the baby on the forehead and holds it towards him and hugs it and puts it on the ground. He looks at the window where The VIPs are watching, and iterates that the players are humans, not horses, before falling off, taking his own life in order for the baby to live and ultimately win the game.
Due to the coast guard's discovery of the island, the Front Man sets the island to self-destruct after thirty minutes, and all guards are ordered to evacuate. Before evacuating with Jun-hee's baby, the Front Man takes one last look at Gi-hun's dead body. Meanwhile, Jun-ho discovers the VIP window to the game, shoots it down and yells out to In-ho asking why he did what he did, to which In-ho slowly uses the pillar he's standing on to lower himself out of Jun-ho's vision. After everybody is evacuated from the island, the timer reaches zero and the entire island blows up, with Jun-ho managing to escape with his scuba gear. After he escapes, he sees the coast guard ship. In-ho later travels to the Pink Motel to retrieve the money that Gi-hun had left behind. 
Six months later, Gyeong-seok sketches a portrait of No-eul at the amusement park where they first met. Gyeong-seok doesn't remember seeing No-eul before the games and says she looks familiar. No-eul says she used to work at the amusement park, and afterwards she refers to Park Na-yeon by name, further proving to Gyeong-seok that she knew him before the games. As No-eul is entering her car, she gets a call from her broker, Park Man-cheol, who informs her that her daughter Han Song-lee may still be in China. Woo-seok is released from prison and catches up with Jun-ho. They find out that they are both unemployed, and they contemplate working together. They then discuss the whereabouts of Gi-hun's old earnings, which had been taken from their usual spot at the Pink Motel. 
Jun-ho returns home and finds Jun-hee's baby resting on their table, as well as a note saying that she won the games and a gold credit card with ₩45.6 billion on it. Meanwhile, Cho Sang-woo's mother and Kang Cheol reunite with Kang Sae-byeok's mother who was rescued by Sae-byeok's broker. Afterwards, Man-cheol calls No-eul and lets her know that when she arrives in China to reunite with her child, there will be people waiting there for her. Woo-seok and Kim Mu-dong discuss renovating the Pink Motel and the disappearance of the prize money, contemplating whether it was the detective or Gi-hun who took it.
In Los Angeles, Hwang In-ho arrives at Seong Ga-yeong's family's house to give her a gift. Because he introduces himself as an acquaintance of Gi-hun's, she turns him away at the door. However, he regains her attention by stating that Gi-hun had passed away and that he was only bringing her his old belongings. She opens the box and discovers Gi-hun's old Squid Game tracksuit and a gold credit card, which is assumed to contain Gi-hun's leftover earnings from his victory in the 2020 Squid Games. Afterwards, on his way home in his car In-ho notices a homeless man playing ddakji with a different recruiter hinting that the Squid Game franchises are still active abroad. As she smiles at him, In-ho sighs before driving off, and the recruiter continues playing ddakji with the homeless man.

Starring[]
Main[]
Lee Jung-jae as Seong Gi-hun (Player 456)
Lee Byung-hun as The Front Man/Hwang In-ho
Yim Si-wan as Lee Myung-gi (Player 333)
Wi Ha-joon as Hwang Jun-ho
Lee Jin-wook as Park Gyeong-seok (Player 246/Soldier 016)
Jeon Seok-ho as Choi Woo-seok
Park Gyu-young as Kang No-eul (Guard 011)
Recurring actors[]
Jo A-in as Seong Ga-yeong
Park Ye-bom as Park Na-yeon
Choi Jae-hwan as Kim Mu-dong
Park Hye-jin as Cho Sang-woo's mother
Park Si-wan as Kang Cheol
Park Mi-hyun as Kang Sae-byeok's mother
Choi Gwi-hwa as Kim Gi-min (Player 203; corpse)
Guest[]
Cate Blanchett as American Recruiter
Files[]
Player 207
Kim Yong-su (Player 250)
Player 357
Yang Ho-jun (Player 362)
Deaths[]
Lee Myung-gi (Fell off jacket sleeve to death)
Seong Gi-hun (Altruistic suicide as a sacrifice to save Kim Jun-hee's baby)
Trivia[]
Similar to Cho Sang-woo in season one, Seong Gi-hun is the last player to die in the game. (One is 33rd Squid Game, other one is 37th Squid Game)
In both cases, both of their deaths are suicides in order to let the last player win. (Sang-woo lets Gi-hun win in the 33rd Squid Game, while Gi-hun lets Kim Jun-hee's baby win in the 37th Squid Game)
Director Hwang Dong-hyuk did not originally plan for Gi-hun to die, but rather win the game somehow and visit his daughter. However, he felt this ending didn't line up with what was happening in the real world, so he had Gi-hun sacrifice himself for the baby, a symbol of the future generation.[1]
This episode is similar to the episode One Lucky Day.
Gi-hun is the last character in the show to die.
The air raid siren, heard after Gi-hun's death, is based on a H.O.R. Siro-Drone.
This episode is named after Gi-hun’s last words.
Originally, Dong-hyuk planned for Gi-hun to continue with: "As humans, this is what we should do. As humans, this is how we should be. And starting now, this is how we can turn this world of ours into a better one." However, Dong-hyuk changed it to the current ending in order to finish the sentence with an impactful action and avoid making an overly definitive statement about humans.[2]
This is the first season finale to feature Jun-ho as he does not appear in One Lucky Day (S1 Finale) or Friend or Foe (S2 Finale)
The director of Squid Game Hwang Dong-hyuk, makes a cameo in this episode.
The cameo is in the 6 months later scene when Park Na-yeon talks to her father (Park Gyeong-seok/Player 246) and you can see him as a portrait artist in the background.
This episode has the first appearance of Seong Ga-yeong since Season 1, Episode 2 (Hell).
Lee Myung-gi is the first death of this episode.
Gi-hun and Myung-gi’s fight is similar to Gi-hun and Sang-woo’s fight in One Lucky Day (S1 E9)
As Gi-hun foretold towards the ending of 001, that if everyone kept playing until the very end, they (minus Gyeong-seok who escaped) will eventually suffer the same fate as the other players who were with him in Season 1.
Gi-hun not only saved Jun-hee's baby, but No-eul's life as well.
Quotes[]
We are not horses, we are humans. And humans are...
Seong Gi-hun's last words 
References[]

↑ Variety - 'Squid Game' Creator Details the Original Ending Where [SPOILER] Lives, the Connection Between That Cameo and an American Spinoff and How Season 4 Is Still a Possibility

↑ ScreenRant - Gi-hun's "Humans Are" Speech in Squid Game Season 3 Ending Fully Explained By Creator & Star: "There Was No Right Answer"


Squid GameSeason 1
Red Light, Green Light
Hell
The Man with the Umbrella
Stick to the Team
A Fair World
Gganbu
VIPS
Front Man
One Lucky Day
Season 2
Bread and Lottery
Halloween Party
001
Six Legs
One More Game
O X
Friend or Foe
Season 3
Keys and Knives
The Starry Night
It's Not Your Fault
222
⭘△☐
Humans Are...