Title: Hwang In-ho/History
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Hwang_In-ho/History
--------------------------------------------------
Contents

1 History

1.1 Backstory
1.2 28th Squid Game
1.3 33rd Squid Game
1.4 2021
1.5 2024
1.6 2025




History[]
Backstory[]
Hwang In-ho was born on February 2, 1976, somewhere in Gyeonggi Province to his father and an unnamed biological mother. During his childhood, his father remarried to a woman named Park Mal-soon, and they had a son named Hwang Jun-ho, his younger half-brother. At some point in his life before 2015, he donated one of his kidneys to his brother to save his life.

    In-ho as a cop with his step-mother and half-brother  
Between 1992 and 1995, Hwang In-ho attended Seoin High School. He then participated in a police academy from 1995 to 1999. After graduating, he began a job as a police detective in 2001, eventually becoming an elite highly decorated officer within the Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency. As a member of law enforcement, In-ho held a high sense of duty and justice. He would serve in his position for the next 14 years.

28th Squid Game[]
    Oh Il-nam offering In-ho the knife.  
Disguised as Oh Young-il in the 37th Squid Games, In-ho revealed his backstory and reasoning for joining the games, which can easily be interpreted for why he joined the 28th Squid Game: When his wife suffered from acute liver cirrhosis during her pregnancy, the doctor revealed that she had to make a choice: terminate her pregnancy and live, or go through with it but risk death. His wife was adamant about saving her child, even at the cost of her life. Since finding the donor and covering the transplant operation was too expensive, In-ho was forced to borrow money from a criminal, which was mistaken for taking a bribe. Despite his perfect track record and the circumstances of his wife, his superior fired him without a second thought. Desperate, he entered the 28th Squid Game after being recruited by The Recruiter as Player 132. During a brief flashback in Season Three, it is revealed that at some point during the Games—presumably the night before the final round—In-ho met Oh Il-nam and was offered a knife to eliminate the remaining players and secure his survival. In-ho accepted the offer killing at least 5 finalists and ultimately went on to win the 28th Squid Games. It is unclear when exactly his wife passed away, but it is presumed that she died before he was able to use the prize money to pay for her surgery to save her and their unborn child. Maddened with grief, In-ho agreed to join Oh Il-nam, eventually becoming the Front Man. 
In 2020 despite winning the prize money from 2015 In-ho was living in a tiny apartment and missing rent payments. About a week before the 33rd Squid Game began, he left his apartment and didn't contact his family. This resulted in Jun-ho believing he had gone missing. Jun-ho visited his apartment to investigate and discovered an invitation card for Squid Game, prompting him to reach out to Seong Gi-hun, who'd attempted to report the Squid Games to the police with an identical card. After being rebuffed, Jun-ho tailed Gi-hun when he was picked up by Squid Game staff, allowing him to infiltrate the games.

33rd Squid Game[]
    In-ho watching the game  
The Front Man is first seen as he walks into the room where workers are monitoring the players through cameras. When the players enter the area for the first game, the Front Man makes a phone call, telling the person on the other end that the preparations are complete and the game can begin. He then starts watching the game on a big screen, while listening to "Fly Me To The Moon" and drinking whiskey.
After the Squid Game was halted due to the majority of players voting to end, it resumed later with many players choosing to return. A manager informs the Front Man that 93% of the players returned to the games. The Front Man instructs him to monitor the fourteen people who didn't return and to keep him updated.

      
After another manager is forced to take his mask off by a player who stole his gun, the Front Man enters the room and shoots the worker in the head. He reminds the other workers that once somebody finds out who you are, you're dead. The Front Man then orders the workers to give the players minimal food to set off a fight between the players. He makes the lights flicker to cause more hysteria. When Player 001, In-ho's boss, cries out to stop the fight, the Front Man tells the workers to end it. 
After Byeong-gi (a doctor who helped workers with organ selling) lashes out at some workers and kills one, a worker takes off his mask to show he's just human and calm Byeong-gi down. The worker then secretly tries to stab Byeong-gi, but the Front Man enters the room and shoots him. He tells him that he doesn't care about the organ selling, but that he is angry the worker ruined the equality of the players by giving Byeong-gi advantageous information. He tells him that the players suffered inequality in the real world, and the games are their last chance to fight fair. He then shoots the worker again, this time killing him.
The Front Man is informed about another dead worker. He is told about an intruder on the island and demands that the workers find him. He then takes the bullet out of the body's head and takes a close look at it, recognizing it as one from a gun that is standard issue for Korean police.
Later, the Front Man returns to his quarters to take a phone call, but he notices that the phone is placed differently than he usually does it. This indicates to him that the intruder is probably close to him, so he takes out his gun and goes to search for the intruder. He mentions that he knows he's a cop and asks the intruder to come and talk with him because he cannot leave the place without his permission. He enters the room the intruder is in, nearly finding him, but gets a call revealing that a body was found on the island. He goes to see it, and is given the police ID that was in the body's pocket. He sees that it's Hwang Jun-ho's ID, his younger brother. He also sees that the body is not Jun-ho, realizing he is the intruder and is still walking around. He tells the guards to incinerate the body, likely because he wants to find and deal with Jun-ho himself.
When the VIPs arrive, he informs the host and goes to greet them. He introduces himself and brings them to the room where they can watch the next game. During the game, he keeps the VIPs informed about the game and the players. Upon discovering that the intruder had just been with one of the VIPs, he went to look for him. He finds that Jun-ho has escaped through a hole and catches a glimpse of him at the end of it. Through a phone call, he's informed that the diving equipment is gone, and the intruder must’ve left through the underwater cave. He pursues him in a speedboat accompanied by a team of guards. He tells them to bring him alive.
As the guards catch up with Jun-ho and corner him on a cliff, the Front Man arrives. The Front Man tells Jun-ho that he will let him live if he hands over the gun and phone. He explains that he knows that Jun-ho has only one bullet left in his gun because of police regulations. As the Front Man gets closer, Jun-ho shoots him in the shoulder. The workers want to shoot Jun-ho, but the Front Man signals them not to. Jun-ho asks the Front Man who he is, to which he responds by taking off his mask, revealing that he is Jun-ho's brother, In-ho. He asks the shocked Jun-ho to come with him, but the detective refuses. In response, In-ho shoots his brother non-fatally in the shoulder. As Jun-ho falls off the cliff, In-ho puts his mask back on and walks away with his escort. Later, as In-ho goes back to his office, he takes care of his bullet wound while looking in the mirror. He's haunted by a hallucination of Jun-ho asking him, "Why?".  
After Gi-hun wins the Squid Game, he sits in the limo with him and congratulates him. Gi-hun asks him why they are doing this, and In-ho compares it to horse racing. He also tells Gi-hun that he's surprised he made it this far and to think of it as a dream.

2021[]
Hwang In-ho can be seen standing next to the bed of Il-nam, who had just died. He reflects on the conversation he'd had with him a year before during the 33rd Squid Game before closing his eyes and walking away. He has now assumed complete control of the games following Il-nam's death.

2024[]
In-ho continues not to contact his stepmother, and subsequently the still alive Jun-ho, for three years, leading to her believing he blames her for his wife's death.
Hwang In-ho retains his role as the Front Man for the annual Squid Games. During the recruiting period, the Front Man learns that Gi-hun plans to kidnap him, and decides to confront him himself. During their conversation, Gi-hun chooses to go for another strategy and enters the Squid Games once more. After showing visible frustrations due to the lack of player deaths due to Gi-hun's intervention and leadership in Red Light, Green Light, compared to the death toll in the original game, he fears Gi-hun could pose a threat to the 2024 games. Thus, In-ho uses his anonymous identity to enter the games as Oh Young-il, Player 001, and casts the deciding vote to continue the games after Red Light, Green Light. He plays the games to keep an eye on Gi-hun and manipulate him at the correct times. Despite some shortcomings, such as naming Gi-hun without being told, he gains the trust of his other comrades, and they form a team in Six-Legged Pentathlon - where he played Spinning Top. He’s even applauded by all the other players after defending Myung-gi from Thanos and Nam-gyu. When Thanos told In-ho to "save the lecture for your own kids", In-ho was deeply hurt and enraged as his unborn child tragically died with his wife, effortlessly attacking him as a result but restrained himself from killing Thanos. During the games, In-ho participates in all legitimacy and helps his team to win. However, during the game "Mingle", Jung-bae witnesses In-ho guessing the required number of players per room, and later killing a man in cold blood to survive, disturbing Jung-bae.
In-ho can be seen genuinely connecting with his peers, staying up during the night during "Six Legs" to talk to Gi-hun about his wife, who he claimed was ill and needed a liver transplant; whilst this was true, it occurred during 2015 when he was a legitimate player of the games. This can be seen as In-ho genuinely trying to explain to Gi-hun that the games give desperate people one last chance at turning their life around or otherwise being put out of their misery, in an attempt to subdue Gi-hun's anger toward the games.
Immediately following a vote to end the games after the third round, a bloody brawl unfolded in the bathrooms between several players who wanted to end the games and those who wished to continue. Five were killed in the aftermath, but the other players then quickly realized that they could freely kill each other outside the games to increase the prize money further. Two sides clearly formed based upon the voting process, with the players that wanted to continue the games determined to massacre those who voted to leave.
Gi-hun, knowing the bloodshed that would unfold from his previous games, convinces a small group to join him in rebelling against the guards, capturing the Front Man, and ending the games. As the lights turned off, members of the O team rushed through the darkness and began murdering the other sleeping players, quickly starting a brutal fight reminiscent of the special game three years prior. Gi-hun's group, however, remains hidden under and around the bedding while the others fight, reluctantly sacrificing their fellow anti-game players to maintain the ruse.
Eventually, after dozens are killed, a squad of soldiers finally enters to break up the fighting, separating everyone. But then Gi-hun's group, still hidden under the bedding or playing dead, pounce on the soldiers all at once, disarming several of their MP5A3 submachine guns and fighting back against them. The players, including In-ho, impressively manage to kill many of the soldiers, with the Masked Officer calling for the survivors to retreat and sealing the main doors to the dorms, but trapping the squad's Manager inside when he failed to escape. Player 047, enraged at the pro-game players for killing innocents, moves to gun down several of them, but Gi-hun stops him and reminds him that if he killed them, he'd be no different from the masked men. Hyun-ju suggests they gather the dead soldiers' guns and ammunition, then destroy the dormitory cameras to hide themselves from the control room. Gi-hun delivers a speech to the gathered survivors and states his plan to fight their way to the headquarters and end the event, imploring anyone with experience handling guns to step forward. When the players all hesitate, Park Jung-bae sympathizes with them but reminds them it may be the last opportunity for everybody to escape and go home, which convinces Player 015 to fight. A few others also step up to join including Players 072, 206, 324, 145, and 246, bringing Gi-hun's group to about twelve fighters. Noticing the others struggling, Hyun-ju steps forward and instructs the rebels on how to operate the MP5A3, revealing to a questioning 246 that she formerly served as a Sergeant First Class in Korean Special Forces.
Gi-hun forces the captured manager to remove his mask, with Jung-bae expressing disbelief at his young age. Smashing through the side door to the bathrooms, the group exits the dorms and proceeds into the massive multi-coloured stairwell, where they are attacked by several soldiers from a higher level and pinned down. Hyun-ju rushes forward and manages to kill three soldiers from a vantage point, forcing those remaining to retreat. At the same time, the players pushed forward, unaware of a larger group waiting to ambush them. They reach the entrance to the complex's management area, where the captured manager states he needs his mask to pass through the security, which he retrieves. As he looks up, however, the manager sees Player 001 (Oh Young-il), recognizing him as his boss and standing in disbelief, but is then shot in the head by the ambush group, pinning the players down. The soldiers fire at them from across the towering stairwell gap, killing Player 072 when he fails to reach cover.
Gi-hun orders the others to stay behind and buy time while he and Jung-bae head to the control room, which Young-il questions but complies with. The two find a security door that they pass by using the dead manager's mask, leaving a spare MP5 to hold the door open. They are attacked by two soldiers, but manage to kill them by causing a diversion with the manager's mask, looting them of their ammo before moving on. Seeing them advance, the Officer orders a large group of soldiers to defend the control room, which Gi-hun and Jung-bae have almost reached.
Back in the stairwell, the other rebelling players are locked in a shootout with the soldiers. 047 manages to kill another guard and advises Kang Dae-ho not to waste his ammo after wildly spraying fire, as he is beginning to crack from the intensity of the fighting. 047 suggests to Young-il that they meet up with Gi-hun, as they are getting nowhere, being bogged down in a firefight, but Young-il fears they will get surrounded if they move forward with no plan and tells them to hold their ground. 206 is suddenly shot and killed by a soldier flanking the group, but 246 and Hyun-ju manage to kill him and another flanking soldier. The extended gunfight begins to wear down on the players, as they all discover their ammo running dangerously low, while a pinned-down Gi-hun and Jung-bae run into the same problem as they radio Young-il for backup. Gi-hun reminds them that the soldiers they killed in the dorms have extra magazines in their pockets, which Young-il orders someone else to retrieve while he, 047, and 015 push on to reinforce Gi-hun. Hyun-ju prepares to retrieve the magazines, but Dae-ho steps up and volunteers to go instead, being out of ammo anyway. Hyun-ju gives him a loaded MP5 and sends him back after the others cover him, advising him to follow the destroyed cameras.
Gi-hun runs out of ammo and bravely runs to a guard's corpse to grab more magazines, narrowly avoiding being gunned down, though he suffers a graze on his arm. Young-il, 047, and 015 arrive to assist, with him suggesting to Gi-hun that they attempt to flank the soldiers guarding the control room entrance. Gi-hun agrees and hands him a spare magazine, which Young-il strangely hesitates to take, but does so anyway, leading the others to outflank the guards. Back in the dorms, Dae-ho shakily arrives and starts to gather the dead soldiers' magazines with assistance from Players 149, 222, and 007, managing to gather more than a dozen. As he leaves the dorms, however, the distant gunfire from the shootout frightens him, causing him to become unresponsive when Hyun-ju radios him for help, before backing away in defeat. Hearing nothing, Hyun-ju volunteers to run back and grab the magazines, assuming Dae-ho had been killed.
Young-il and the others get behind the soldiers near the control and prepare to ambush them, but 047 is suddenly gunned down by Young-il, 015 suffering the same fate but barely alive. Young-il then radios Gi-hun and fakes his own death, using 015's dying noises through the radio to create the ruse, before executing the injured player with a headshot. Revealing his treachery, Young-il changes his radio's channel and orders the guards to start wrapping things up; in reality, he is Hwang In-ho, the Front Man.
Gi-hun and Jung-bae also ran out of ammo and surrendered at this point, held at gunpoint by soldiers. After changing into his Front Man attire, In-ho arrives with the Officer, questioning Gi-hun about his experience playing the hero, before raising his M1911 to execute him. Just as Gi-hun accepts his fate with a furious gaze, the Front Man tells him to look at the consequences of his rebellion before turning his gun to Jung-bae. The two friends share one last look, then the Front Man kills him with a shot to the chest, much to Gi-hun's heartbreaking anguish as two soldiers barely restrain him from lunging at his adversary. The Front Man walks back up to the control room, the rebellion successfully quelled.
In-ho then continues to oversee the games. He later welcomes the VIPs and allows them to personally eliminate players in Hide and Seek. He also tells Park Yeong-gil to kill all of his passengers, including Jun-ho, if things go wrong. Following Jun-hee's suicide, he suggests that her baby take her place as Player 222, claiming that the game will become more interesting by doing so. The VIPs agree to allow this.
Before the final game, In-ho, realizing that the other players will target Gi-hun and the baby, summons Gi-hun to his office. He mirrored how Oh Il-nam had originally corrupted him. He offers a knife for Gi-hun to kill the other players, leaving him and the baby as the winners. He also reveals his face to Gi-hun, which shocks him. After In-ho apologies to Gi-hun for killing Jung-bae. He tells Gi-hun who is enraged that he is" Young-il" grabbed the knife in a threating manner seemingly wanting to attack In-ho. While In-ho tells Gi-hun he could kill him. However In-ho warns Gi-hun that someone else will take his place as Front Man if he dies, and the game will still proceed as planned. As Gi-hun leaves, In-ho questions his faith in people. Gi-hun ultimately decides not to kill the other players before the game something that deeply affected, and In-ho remembers how he accepted Il-nam's offer to kill the finalists in 2015. As it showed that Gi-Hun had the moral strength to do what he couldn't.
Following Gi-hun's suicide in the final game to ensure the baby's survival, In-ho is informed that the coast guard is approaching the island. He starts a 30-minute countdown and orders a full-scale evacuation of the island. In-ho then goes out to momentarily look at Gi-hun's corpse before going up to the final platform to retrieve the baby. As he does this, Jun-ho shoots through the glass separating the VIP viewing room and the game room, again asking why he is doing this. In-ho momentarily looks at Jun-ho, but does not respond. Sometime after the destruction of the game venue, In-ho goes to the Pink Motel and finds Gi-hun's remaining prize money from 2020.

2025[]
Six months later, In-ho leaves the baby and her prize money in the care of Jun-ho. He also travels to Los Angeles to deliver Gi-hun's player tracksuit and a card containing his remaining prize money to Seong Ga-yeong and inform her of Gi-hun's death. After leaving Ga-yeong's house, he witnesses a recruiter playing ddakji with a destitute man. The recruiter, upon seeing In-ho, appears to recognize him. However, unlike Gi-hun, he doesn't intervene with the recruiter's job and drives off with a heavy heart.