Title: Hwang Jun-ho's mother
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Hwang_Jun-ho%27s_mother
--------------------------------------------------
Park Mal-soon





							2024
							
						



							2022
							
						



							Pre-2015
							
						


























Name
Park Mal-soon[1]


Family
Hwang In-ho (stepson)Unnamed stepdaughter-in-law †Hwang Jun-ho (son)Kim Jun-hee's baby (adoptive granddaughter)


Occupation
Housewife (formerly)


Born
April 30, 1948[1] (aged 76)[2]


Fate

Status
Alive



Physical Description

Gender
Female


Eye color
Brown


Hair color
Gray



Appearances

Portrayed by
Lee Joo-sil †





First appearance
Last appearance




"Hell" (voice)
"Halloween Party"







I just don't want him to think I loved him any less. Or feel that since I wasn't his birth mother, I put your needs first. That's what scares me the most.
Park Mal-soon to Hwang Jun-ho in "Halloween Party"
Park Mal-soon (박말순 Bag Mal-sun?) is the mother of Hwang Jun-ho and the stepmother of Hwang In-ho and the adoptive grandmother of Kim Jun-hee's baby.

Contents

1 History

1.1 Background
1.2 2020
1.3 2022
1.4 2024


2 Personality
3 Trivia
4 Behind the scenes
5 Appearances
6 References


History[]
Background[]
Little is known about Park Mal-soon's early life, other than that she was born on April 30, 1948. As an adult, she had a son named Hwang Jun-ho, as well as a stepson, Hwang In-ho, through an unspecified marriage. She loved both of her children dearly, without any regards for their blood connection.
In 2015, Hwang In-ho's wife, who had been diagnosed with acute liver cirrhosis, was pregnant and in need of an organ transplant. Mal-soon and Jun-ho, who were going through their own troubles at the time, were unable to assist, and she eventually died from her condition.

2020[]
On June 23, Mal-soon calls her son, Jun-ho, while he is driving toward In-ho's dorm. She expresses her growing concern for In-ho, who hasn't been answering their calls. Jun-ho tells her not to worry too much and promises to find him.

2022[]
Two years later, Mal-soon is by Jun-ho's side when he awakens from a coma, a result of being shot and falling into the ocean. Overwhelmed with emotion as he opens his eyes, she cries out for a doctor.

2024[]
Around early fall, Mal-soon asks Jun-ho to visit the grave of In-ho's wife on the anniversary of her death. She hopes to see if In-ho has left flowers, as a sign that he is still alive. During dinner at her house, she shares her growing sadness and belief that In-ho no longer wants them in his life, given their years of silence. She confides her fears that In-ho harbors resentment toward her, that he believes she favored Jun-ho over him because In-ho is her stepson. Mal-soon becomes tearful as she recalls being unable to help In-ho's wife, while In-ho gave his kidney to save Jun-ho. She laments that, if it had been possible, she would have sold her organs to help In-ho's wife. Jun-ho urges her to stop blaming herself and tells her that they are not responsible for what happened to him.

Personality[]
Mal-soon is a caring and compassionate mother, whose love and concern for both In-ho and Jun-ho runs deep. Despite In-ho not being her biological son, she appears to care for him as much as for Jun-ho. She gets emotional easily and is often self-critical, blaming herself for In-ho's estrangement and her inability to prevent the passing of In-ho's wife. 

Trivia[]
In an interview, Hwang Dong-hyuk states that one of the reasons why In-ho leaves Kim Jun-hee's baby under Jun-ho's care is because Jun-ho is the only family he has left. It is unclear if this statement was meant to imply that Mal-soon has passed away, or that In-ho does not consider Mal-soon to be family.[3]
She has the same first name as Seong Gi-hun's mother, Oh Mal-soon.
Behind the scenes[]
Park Mal-soon is portrayed by Lee Joo-sil, who died on February 2, 2025 due to stomach cancer.

Appearances[]
Season One
"Hell" (voice)
Season Two
"Bread and Lottery"
"Halloween Party"
References[]

↑ 1.0 1.1 As briefly shown on the documents for the 28th Squid Game in "A Fair World".

↑ As of October 2024, under the international age system.

↑ https://youtu.be/HIBmUxs8Etc?feature=shared