Title: Hwang Jun-ho's team
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Hwang_Jun-ho%27s_team
--------------------------------------------------
Mercenaries






Name
Hwang Jun-ho's team


Affiliation
Seong Gi-hun †Sunshine Capital


Leader
Seong Gi-hun † (organiser)Hwang Jun-ho (leader)Choi Woo-seok (second-in-command)Kim (group leader)


Known members
Boat 1:Captain Park Yeong-gil † (undercover traitor)First drone pilot †Second Drone pilot †Noodles Mercenary †Mercenary Navigator †3 unnamed mercenaries †Boat 2:Captain Ko (undercover traitor)Several unnamed mercenaries †


Status
Dissolved


Founded
September 2, 2024


Dissolved
November 7, 2024


Appearances




First appearance
Last appearance




"Halloween Party"
"Humans Are..."






The Mercenaries were a group of ex-military operatives that were dispatched to locate and infiltrate the Squid Game island after Seong Gi-hun's re-entered the games. They were led by Hwang Jun Ho and Choi Woo seok. 

Contents

1 History
2 Members

2.1 Boat 1
2.2 Boat 2


3 Objectives
4 Gallery

4.1 Promotional




History[]
In preparation for taking down the Squid Games, Seong Gi-hun had Choi Woo-seok seek out military operatives from a wide variety of backgrounds in the weeks leading up to October 31th, Halloween. Their overall goal was to capture the Front Man (Hwang In-ho) before the 37th Squid Game ends. Most of the mercenaries were motivated by money; however, Jun-ho primarily wanted to reunite with his brother In-ho, while Woo-seok wanted to avenge his former boss Mr. Kim who was killed by the Recruiter.  
On October 31, 2024, the team split up into 3 vehicles (including Jun-ho's car) and chased down the limousine carrying the Front Man (Hwang In-ho), but all 3 vehicles were disabled. In response, they switched to "Plan B" - sending Gi-hun to the games and infiltrating the Island before the games start. The team enlisted Park Yeong-gil (Captain Park) and Captain Ko to command 2 boats during their search for the Island. They were initially unsuccessful because Gi-hun's tracker was intercepted and moved to mislead the search team. Despite this setback, they continued the search, knowing Gi-hun stood a chance of living if they made it within 6 days. At one point, they identified a man-made structure using a drone and went there to investigate; however, it turned out to be an explosive trap, killing 1 team member and injuring another.  
Captain Park's duplicitous nature was first exposed when the drone pilot noticed him tampering with the drone at night. Captain Park killed the drone pilot and threw him overboard. Woo-seok heard the noise and became suspicious because Captain Park was holding a screwdriver. Because of this, Woo-seok decided not to return for the boat's next trip, instead starting his own investigation of Captain Park. Meanwhile, the Front Man instructed Captain Park to not let them reach the island before the games end, and to kill everyone (including Jun-ho) if things go south.  
Near Moojin Port, Woo-seok talked to some locals and realized nobody there knew Captain Park or Captain Ko, furthering his suspicions. That night, he broke into Captain Park's house and discovered evidence connecting him to the Squid Games, before being arrested by local police. Meanwhile, the other members found the island where Jun-ho was shot (with the help of a new drone pilot), within 13 miles of the Squid Game island. At the police station, Woo-seok overheard an officer calling Captain Park about the burglary, so he forcibly got hold of his own phone and warned Jun-ho about Captain Park. While Jun-ho took the call, Captain Park killed all the mercenaries in his boat except Kim. Jun-ho then shot Captain Park with a speargun, but he still refused to tell the Island's location. Captain Ko managed to kill everyone on his boat and informed the Front Man of the situation.  
Jun-ho and Kim came across Park Gyeong-seok and killed the guards who were chasing him. After Gyeong-seok pointed them to the Island, Jun-ho called the Coast Guard and went there using his dive pack while Kim stayed behind. Finally, Jun-ho made it to the Island, but a few minutes too late as Gi-hun had just died in the final game and the Front man was ordering everyone to evacuate. Jun-ho barely had enough time to find the VIP viewing area and briefly confront his brother.   

Members[]
Seong Gi-hun † (organizer, infiltrator and employer) - Altruistic suicide as a sacrifice to save Kim Jun-hee's baby in Sky Squid Game
Boat 1[]
Hwang Jun-ho (leader)
Choi Woo-seok (second-in-command)
Kim (group leader)
Captain Park Yeong-gil † (traitor) - Shot in chest with a harpoon gun by Hwang Jun-ho
Unnamed mercenary † - Killed by a bomb explosion
First drone pilot † - Stabbed to death with screwdriver by Capitain Park Yeong-gil
Second drone pilot † - Shot repeatedly by Captain Park Yeong-gil †
Two unnamed mercenaries † - Shot repeatedly by Captain Park Yeong-gil
Mercenary Navigator † - Shot repeatedly by Captain Park Yeong-gil
Noodles Mercenary † - Shot repeatedly by Captain Park Yeong-gil
Boat 2[]
Sea Captain Ko
Boat 2's mercenaries † - Killed off-screen by Captain Ko
Objectives[]


Objective

Member(s)

Succeeded?

Details


End and/or expose the Korean Squid Games (main objective)

All

Yes

They located the Squid Game island and called the Coast Guard, who responded. Hwang In-ho was forced to blow up the game facilities to destroy evidence.


Ensure Seong Gi-hun's survival by interrupting the games

All

No

They did not reach the island in time. Gi-hun had sacrificed himself for Kim Jun-hee's baby in the final game.


Earn money from their client Seong Gi-hun

Mercenaries

Unsure

It is unspecified whether or not Gi-hun paid the mercenaries prior to the mission. Gi-hun's leftover prize money from the 33rd games was removed from the Pink Motel and presumably given to Seong Ga-yeong. However, Jun-ho was given the baby's prize money, and the team came into possession of the Pink Motel.


Confront Hwang In-ho

Hwang Jun-ho

Unsure

While Jun-ho managed to find his brother again, he only had time to shout a few sentences before having to evacuate due to the island's scheduled explosion. In-ho did not respond verbally.


Avenge Mr. Kim by killing the Squid Games staff

Choi Woo-seok

N/A

The pink guards (including Kang No-eul) escaped on a boat before the island was set to explode; however, They still managed to kill Park Yeong-gil and Manager 004.

Gallery[]
Team one in a BTS pic.
Promotional[]