Title: Il-nam's Last Game
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Il-nam%27s_Last_Game
--------------------------------------------------
Il-nam's Last Game







Attendance:
2




Player statistics


Passed:
Eliminated:




1
1





Game Information

Teams?
No


Appears in:
"One Lucky Day"




Continuation


Previous
Next




Squid Game
Bread or Lottery





Il-nam's Last Game (일남의 마지막 경기 Ilnam-ui majimag gyeong-gi?) is the additional 7th Game played between Seong Gi-hun and Oh Il-nam after Gi-hun wins the 33rd Squid Game. This game takes place in the 7th Floor of Sky Building.
Only two players participated in this game, and one was eliminated - giving a 50% survival rate depending on the opponents condition. In this case, Il-nam was on a death bed right around the corner of his fate. 
This game took place on December 24, 2021. The notable (and only) elimination here in this game is Oh Il-nam himself.

Contents

1 Game Information
2 Players eliminated
3 Players passed

3.1 Additional guests during the game


4 Trivia
5 Gallery


Game Information[]
     Oh Il-nam's invitation card given by the Flower Seller to Seong Gi-hun.   Seong Gi-hun is sent a letter through a Flower Seller to head to the Sky Building at 11:30 PM. He heads to the building and finds Il-nam lying on his death bed once he reaches the 7th Floor. Shocked to hear that Il-nam was the creator of the Squid Games, Gi-hun angrily demands answers from Il-nam. Then, Il-nam proposes a final bet: A drunk man has been left out in the freezing cold, and will likely die if left there. Il-nam bets that nobody will stop to help him, and Gi-hun bets that someone will. As they waited till midnight, Il-nam explains he created the games for the entertainment of his clients, and he rejoined to relive his memories as a kid. He thanks Gi-hun for rekindling forgotten memories of his.
A moment before midnight arrives, support arrives for the drunk man; proving Gi-hun right. Il-nam does not see this, as he dies the moment after, and Gi-hun pertains that he knew he lost. Gi-hun leaves the building, and soon after Hwang In-ho arrives to see Il-nam for the last time.

Players eliminated[]
Oh Il-nam (Player 001) - Passed away from his brain tumor after the clock struck midnight, and lost the bet as support arrived for the drunk man.
Players passed[]
Seong Gi-hun (Player 456) - Won the bet between him and Il-nam and left the building safely.
Additional guests during the game[]
Drunk man - Used as the primary bet between Gi-hun and Il-nam.
Hwang In-ho (Front Man) - Arrived at the end of the game after Gi-hun left to see his boss for the last time.
Supporting People - Also used in the bet, as Il-nam bet the drunk man wouldn't get support before midnight. The supporting peoples were police officers (called by the woman) alongside aforementioned woman, who passed by the drunk man earlier.
Trivia[]
This additional 7th Game takes place on the 7th Floor of the Sky Building. Both the game number and the floor number have the number 7.
This game takes place the same year the 34th Squid Games are being annually hosted.
This game is one out of two known games to only have two participants. The other one being Squid Game, where it was only Gi-hun and Sang-woo.
This game's elimination depended on the opponent's condition. Here in this case, Il-nam was right around the corner of death.
This is the only game Il-nam played that wasn't rigged in his favor beforehand
You could lose this game without dying
Gallery[]
Il nam on his death bedThe Good Woman passing by the Drunk manDittoThe Drunk ManPolice arrivingPolice rescuing the Drunk Man