Title: Island
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Island
--------------------------------------------------
The Island





							Day
							
						



							Night
							
						



















Type
Island


Location
Yellow Sea


Status
Abandoned, half destroyed


Inhabitants
Staff (formerly)Players (formerly)


Visitors
The VIPs (formerly)Pink Guards (formerly)Hwang In-ho (formerly)


The Island is an unnamed island in East Asia that housed the venue for the annual Squid Games competitions.
On November 7, 2024, after finding out that a coast guard's ship was nearing the island, Hwang In-ho detonated bombs strategically placed throughout the venue to demolish all of the competition’s arenas and parts of the island itself, ensuring that any physical evidence of the games’ existence would be permanently obliterated.

Contents

1 Description
2 Rooms

2.1 The Dormitory/Lobby
2.2 Bathroom
2.3 Stairs / Main Game Hall
2.4 Game Halls

2.4.1 Game Hall 1 (Red Light, Green Light, Squid Game)
2.4.2 Game Hall 2 (Sugar Honeycombs)
2.4.3 Game Hall 3 (Tug of War)
2.4.4 Game Hall 4 (Marbles)
2.4.5 Game Hall 5 (Glass Bridge)
2.4.6 White Room
2.4.7 Game Hall 6 (Pentathlon)
2.4.8 Game Hall 7 (Mingle)
2.4.9 Gumball Room
2.4.10 Game Hall 8 (Hide & Seek)
2.4.11 Game Hall 9 (Jump Rope)
2.4.12 Game Hall 10 (Sky Squid Game)
2.4.13 Exterior Hall


2.5 Management Area

2.5.1 Managers' Quarters
2.5.2 Control Room


2.6 The Host's Room
2.7 VIPs' Rooms


3 Pantry

3.1 The Masked Officer's Room
3.2 Workers' Quarters
3.3 Soldiers' Quarters
3.4 Changing Room
3.5 Kitchen
3.6 Underground Cave
3.7 Boat Cave
3.8 Weaponry Room
3.9 Sniper Room
3.10 Incinerator Room


4 Trivia
5 References


Description[]
The island has a curved shape that partially encloses a small part of the sea. It has a mountainous landscape and lush foliage covering the whole island.  

Rooms[]
The island has multiple rooms in underground bunkers in order to maintain the secrecy of the games.

The Dormitory/Lobby[]
Main article: Dormitory
The dormitory is where the Players stay during the competition. It is a room made up of multiple bunk beds. In 2020, as more of the bunk beds are removed following many players elimination, one can notice that there are several murals on the walls behind the bunk beds, which literally foreshadowed every game rounds the players played. In 2024, the Latin phrase "Hodie Mihi Cras Tibi" is revealed once the bunk beds are removed.Dormitory (33rd Squid Game)Empty Dorm (33rd Squid Game)Dormitory floor (37th Squid Game)Empty Dorm (37th Squid Game)
Bathroom[]
Main article: Restroom
The restroom is an interesting location in Squid Game. It is the location that players go to urinate and defecate after a game. Although its purpose would otherwise appear to be strictly utilitarian, the restroom is a fundamental location for many important occurrences in the competition.
One of the most popular incidents associated with this location is the O vs. X Bathroom Fight, a brutal fight that broke out between players and caused chaos and savagery in the cramped spaces. The fight reaffirmed the mounting tensions, suspicion, and desperation of the players as the games progressed.

The bathroom was destroyed on November 7, 2024 when the island exploded.2020 (33rd Squid Game}2024 (37th Squid Game)
Stairs / Main Game Hall[]
Main article: Stairs
Confusing sets of pastel-colored stairs lead to almost every room. The entrances are either a geometrically shaped arches that match with the windows or a normal door. Some doors may only lead to a dead end. It is revealed in Season 2 that these stairs can lead to the Control Room, although its entrance required face-detecting scan to open it and will automatically close once someone entering it unless something is blocking the sliding door. It is the main game hall because it links all the other game halls.

2020 (33rd Squid Game)2024 (37th Squid Game)
Game Halls[]
Game Hall 1 (Red Light, Green Light, Squid Game)[]
The game hall opens through three green gates attached to protruding house-like structures, leading into an open-roofed space with a sandy floor. The walls depict painted houses set in grassy fields beneath a blue sky. A doll stands near a tree at the far end. This is the only hall lit by natural sunlight, with a retractable roof camouflaged to resemble the forest when closed. 
In the final round, the door that Player 456 and 218 went through matches with the wallpaper and the field now has the squid game court. It also has a large black window for the VIPs to watch.
This is the only Game Hall where two games are hosted. This game hall has the most player deaths, with 347 players dying here.

The roof of the first game hall closing.The squid game court in the final round.Young-hee and two workers on the end of the field.The VIPs watching the final round through a window.Game begins (2024)
Game Hall 2 (Sugar Honeycombs)[]
      
The game hall resembles a giant playground, filled with a swing, slide, roundabout, and monkey bars. Multiple sliding doors are hidden in the crayon-drawn blue walls, which are decorated with clouds and sun rays that surround the ceiling light to mimic a child’s drawing of the sun. This hall had 81 people die here, 80 players and one manager. 

Game Hall 3 (Tug of War)[]
      
The game hall is tall and features a wide elevated platform connected by bridges to elevators on either side. These elevators transport players to a higher, narrow platform supported by tall beams. A guillotine is placed at the center to sever ropes during the game. At the bottom, there is a dark entrance where workers retrieve fallen players,  along with a floor drain for quickly washing away blood. This hall had 40 players die here.

Game Hall 4 (Marbles)[]
      
The game hall resembles a small Korean neighborhood. The place structure and composition slightly resemble that of a labyrinth. The orange walls and lighting make it look like there is a sunset in the room. This hall had 21 players die here.

Game Hall 5 (Glass Bridge)[]
      
The game hall is styled like a brightly lit circus tent. it features two platforms (one for entry and one for exit) that are connected by a high glass bridge used for the Glass Stepping Stones game. This hall had 13 players die here.

White Room[]
Main article: White Room
      
The hall is stark white, with a series of staircases and doorways guarded by soldiers. The doors are the only colored elements in the room. This room is used for finding teammates in team games (Tug of War and Marbles). It doesn't appear in season 2 or 3, and the teams for the Pentathlon are formed in its hall.

Game Hall 6 (Pentathlon)[]
      
The game hall mirrors the design of the Sugar Honeycombs room, with blue walls decorated in childlike drawings of clouds. The entrance resembles an elementary school, featuring chalkboard sketches of a field day schedule. Flags from various countries hang on a wire,  and a circular rainbow-colored track is marked with starting positions numbered 1-5. This game hall had 110 people die here.

Game Hall 7 (Mingle)[]
      
The game hall is designed in a circular arena that resembles a theme park carousel, with 50 rooms arranged in a cylindrical pattern and painted in repeating colors of red, orange, yellow, lime, green, teal, cyan, blue, indigo, purple. The doors are evenly spaced along the walls, which are decorated with lights, bows and intricate patterns, giving a carnival-like atmosphere. At the center sits a rotating carousel-like platform with 3 horse sculptures in the middle. This game hall had 155 people die here.

Gumball Room[]
      
The hall is painted black with a yellow floor, and featuring a gumball machine in the center. The entrance is shaped like a knife, while the exit that leads the next game hall takes the form of a key. Similar to the White Room from Season 1, this hall is used to divide players into teams, specifically for the Hide & Seek game.

Game Hall 8 (Hide & Seek)[]
      
The game hall is a complex maze with stone brick walls and vibrant murals depicting plants, buildings, and other colorful elements. The corridors are filled with numerous doors and hidden rooms, all beneath a ceiling painted like a bright, starry sky. The rooms have various designs in childish styles. This game hall had 35 players die here.

Game Hall 9 (Jump Rope)[]
      
The game hall is tall and immersive, with walls transitioning through scenes of night, sunset, and daytime. Young-hee and Cheol-su hold a jump rope at the center, and the arena includes a bridge with railroad theme with a gap in the middle and a flower-themed abyss at the bottom. 16 people died in this game hall.

Game Hall 10 (Sky Squid Game)[]
      
The game hall is enclosed by black walls. It features three towering structures shaped like a square, triangle, and circle, creating a symbolic environment. The square, triangle and circle towers have elevators that transport players to the top and bottom of the towers but we only ever see the square and circle elevators in use. 8 people died in this hall.

Exterior Hall[]
     Overhead view of the Exterior Hall  
A small, rocky room leading to Game Hall 1. It leads to the middle of the field, separated by a heavy duty sliding door.  We see it in use during One Lucky Day during the coinflip. 

Management Area[]
Managers' Quarters[]
     Exteriors of the managers' quarters  
Rooms that the managers stay in. The interior of any of the managers' quarters wasn't seen in the series, but it is most likely large rooms with a little more necessity than those in the workers' and soldiers' quarters. The door has a number in front that corresponds to a manager's key. 

Control Room[]
     Managers monitoring the players  
The dark room is filled with computers that are operated by managers who monitor and control everything that happens on the island. The walls have flat screens that show camera footage, monitoring everything. The floor is also a screen that shows the remaining players, once they are eliminated their pictures are turned off.
In addition, There are two types of special buttons: one button will trigger an alarm in the event of an emergency, and the other button will set off the carefully placed bombs around the facility, When the button is pressed, a 30 minute countdown will begin. When the timer reaches 00:00, the bombs will detonate, destroying the facility.

The Host's Room[]
It is very similar to the VIPs' quarters; black and gold accents, a huge television screen to view the games and multiple rooms. The place contains a bedroom, a living room, the archives and multiple unseen ones. Since the host was unavailable, the front man watches the place.
The living room that contains a sofa, the aforementioned television screen and a jazz concert diorama that moves and plays "Fly Me to the Moon" whenever it is turned on. It turns out the diorama stand is secretly housing a trapdoor that leads to the underground. The bedroom has a door that leads to the archives.

The host's bedroomFront Man watching the first game.Hwang Jun-ho inside archives.
VIPs' Rooms[]
This can be only accessed by a face detecting elevator, though there are tunnels that leads to different rooms within the place. The elevator opens to a hall with multiple rooms and a phone on the desk to call the VIPs. 
There's a huge room with black and gold accents, filled with plants, a huge screen to view the games, and multiple fancy furniture for the VIPs to relax on. It has an unseen room where the VIPs change their clothing. There is also another room where Jun-ho takes the panther masked VIP. It has a black sofa in the middle and the walls are filled with colorful shapes.

Jun-ho and puma masked VIP in another room.VIPs applauding the games.The VIP viewing room (37th Squid Game)
Pantry[]
This is the room where the Waiters get drinks or supply's from to serve The VIPs.


The Masked Officer's Room[]
     View of the Officer's room through a vent  
The Masked Officer's Room is mainly colored in shades of blueish gray while the floor is colored closer to a teal, the room smooth and undetailed. The place contains one living quarter - an armchair with a small table facing a large screen, a kitchen island with a sink carved into it beside a cabinet with a cubby hole housing alcohol. A desk with a monitor is also seen -, a bathroom containing a shower and a changing room/closet in which the Masked Officer houses his uniforms. We see a door that leads to an unknown room, as well as an entrance for the elevator. This room may have been the Frontman's room, but this remains unconfirmed as we never see the host residing in the Host's room or the Frontman in the Officer's room.

Workers' Quarters[]
     A manager inspecting room No. 029.  
A compact bedroom with a bathroom between a toilet and a table near a sink. The door has a number in front that corresponds to a worker's key and a small opening for food. 

Soldiers' Quarters[]
     No. 15 in his room.  
A room with white and orange accents, and a little larger than the workers' quarters, it has the same necessities as in the workers' quarters. The door has a number in front that corresponds to a soldier's key.

Changing Room[]
     Workers in the changing room.  
A very large room in which workers seize all of the players' belongings and change them into their uniforms before the games begin. Sae-byeok is seen smuggling in a pocket knife while pretending to be unconscious.

Kitchen[]
     Workers melting sugar.  
A large industrial kitchen. The night before Sugar Honeycombs, workers are seen melting sugar in large pots to prepare for the game. Later on, Number 028 reveals a hidden passage behind a large refrigerator/drawer which eventually leads to the Underground Cave.

Underground Cave[]
A small, closed off cave that leads to the sea, containing multiple dive packs. During the 33rd Squid Game, Jun-ho had used one of the dive packs to escape from the island. Guards searching for Jun-ho.The cave during daytime.
Boat Cave[]
     Guards departing from the Boat Cave  
A small cave with direct open access to the sea, harboring multiple speedboats. During the 37th Squid Game, a group of guards is sent after Gyeong-seok, both parties using said speedboats.

Weaponry Room[]
     Soldiers retrieving their firearms for the Revolt.  
A room which houses firearms and ammunition stored in lockers to be used by the soldiers. Each locker has a number that corresponds to the soldiers. In the 37th Squid Game, under the orders of the Masked Officer, all soldiers assembled here to fight back against the Revolt.

Sniper Room[]
A small room assigned to soldiers with their corresponding numbers. It is used to shoot the players caught moving during Red Light, Green Light, and also includes a screen for the soldiers to see the exact position of the players, with the players to be eliminated marked in red.No-eul moments before eliminating Player 188.No-eul preparing to leave the room after the game ends.
Incinerator Room[]
The Incinerator Room is a room where Coffins of dead players are taken to be incinirated and cremated by the Workers. There is a mechanism in each incinerator, only able to be activated through the Management Room that drops the coffin into the Organ Trafficking roomCoffins being brought into the furnace room.Coffins being wheeled into the furnaces.Wide shot of the room.A Coffin being burnt in the furnace.
Trivia[]
The stairs are inspired by M.C. Escher's work called "Relativity"[1].
The island is filmed in Seongapdo, Seungbong-ri, an island in the Ongjin-gun county of Incheon, on the Yellow Sea. The island's location within the series is unknown, though.
Players and staff travel to the island on a ferry from a location called Moojin Port, located in Busan.
As teasers for Season 2 and Season 3, Netflix released Backrooms-themed videos showing parts of the filming set for the stair area and various rooms[2][3].
The Emergency alarm button was triggered 3 times, first time in the 33rd squid game during the organ trafficking ring Incident, second time in the 37th Squid Game during the Revolt, the Masked Officer sent every soldier to counterattack the rebels and the third time was when a coastguard's ship was nearing the island, the Front Man triggered the explosion of the island to destroy all evidence of the games.
References[]

↑ The strange familiarity of Squid Game | Apollo Magazine

↑ The Backrooms (Found Footage) | Squid Game: Season 2 | Netflix

↑ The Backrooms 2 (Found Footage) | Squid Game: Season 3 | Netflix


Season One33rd Squid GameMain Characters
001
067
101
199
212
218
456
Major Characters
017
040
111
196
240
244
276
278
303
Supporting Characters
021
062
066
069
070
073
074
096
107
118
119
151
194
198
209
245
250
271
274
306
308
322
324
360
369
407
453
Minor Characters
002
003
004
005
006
009
014
019
024
025
026
028
032
039
043
061
063
068
075
077
078
080
081
083
085
090
112
113
114
115
120
122
123
128
130
133
134
153
154
187
202
204
211
220
224
229
305
309
328
331
357
362
400
413
455
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Workers
Number 028
Number 029
Leadership
The Host
Front Man
Others
The VIPs
Waiters
Human furniture
The Salesman
Young-hee
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Oh Mal-soon
Kang Eun-ji
Seong Ga-yeong
Seong Ga-yeong's stepfather
Seong Ga-yeong's stepbrother
Cho Sang-woo
Mother
Kang Sae-byeok
MotherM
Kang Cheol
Ali Abdul
Wife
Son
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Kim Sang-hyuk
Kim Jin-woo
Criminals
Loan shark
Gang member
Others
Seong Gi-hun's friend
Seong Gi-hun's friend's wife
Banker
Broker
Doctor
Dormitory owner
Factory owner
Teller