Title: It's Not Your Fault
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/It%27s_Not_Your_Fault
--------------------------------------------------
Season Three


Keys and Knives

The Starry Night

It's Not Your Fault

222

⭘△☐

Humans Are...

That wasn't your fault. We all chose to come here. Miss Jang chose. Hyun-ju chose... and so did you. We all made our own choices. I have a daughter too, you know? I was never a good father to her but... watching as she grew up, from the day I first saw her little face. Those were the greatest days of my entire existence. You keep your baby safe no matter what. I'll help you do that.
Seong Gi-hun telling Kim Jun-hee not to give up in "It's Not Your Fault"

It's Not Your Fault





							Title
							
						



							Episode
							
						






















Season
Episode
Overall




3
3
19





Episode Information

Duration
66 minutes


Air Date
June 27, 2025


Writer
Hwang Dong-hyuk


Director
Hwang Dong-hyuk




Episode Guide


Previous
Next




"The Starry Night"
“222”





It's Not Your Fault (당신의 탓이 아니다 Dangsin-ui Tas-i Anida?) is the 3rd episode in Season 3 of the Netflix TV series Squid Game. It is the 19th episode of the series overall.

Contents

1 Synopsis
2 Plot
3 Starring

3.1 Main
3.2 Guest Starring
3.3 Recurring


4 Deaths
5 Trivia
6 References


Synopsis[]
Jun-ho's team gets close to finding the island. Jang Geum-ja makes a desperate plea to help Jun-hee. The VIPs discuss a cruel proposal.

—Official Netflix synopsis
Plot[]
The episode begins with four mini scenes of workers placing the four main deceased characters (Yong-sik, Dae-ho, Seon-nyeo and Hyun-ju) into their coffins. Player 296 lunges at a soldier but is shot by another female soldier. The attacked man and the woman who came to his aid take off their masks. Two more soldiers arrive and also unmask themselves. They chat amusedly about their deeds. It becomes clear that they are VIPs who wanted to “participate” in the game. Then they set out to search for more surviving seekers. Gi-hun is carried out of the arena by a manager and two workers while In-ho watches.
In the dormitory, Myung-gi and Nam-gyu wait for the surviving hide-and-seekers. Nam-gyu asks him if he has seen his necklace, but Myung-gi says no, which Nam-gyu clearly does not believe and attacks him. Nam-gyu becomes increasingly panicked and tries to go back to the arena, but a soldier prevents him. Then Min-su is seen staring at the necklace in his hand. The soldiers turn around in confusion when Geum-ja and Jun-hee enter the room with her newborn baby. Player 100 also stares at them in surprise.
In the catacombs, No-eul (Soldier 11) has rescued Park Gyeong-seok (Player 246). Exhausted and still marked by his near-death experience, he follows her upstairs; both are wearing the clothes of the soldiers she killed. When he asks her why she is helping him, she gives an evasive answer.
In the VIP room, some VIPs enthusiastically report to the front man over a meal about their “mission” to eliminate the survivors. One complains that he couldn't participate because his helicopter was delayed. Another thanks the front man for allowing them to “take part” in the game, to which he replies that it was Chairman Oh-il nam's wish that the VIPs be entertained as best as possible. The masked officer is contacted by a manager who reports that contact with the operating room has been lost. He instructs him to check. Now we see No-eul and Gyeong-seok, still in disguise, continuing to flee through the facility.
In the VIP room, the VIPs discuss the upcoming vote, which they find very exciting. While one suspects that the games will now be stopped due to the high per capita prize money, the front man says that the survivors have only gotten this far because they killed their fellow players, which means that their inhibitions about continuing to play are likely to be low.
In the dormitory, Jun-hee breastfeeds her daughter, which Myung-gi observes. Then the masked men arrive and announce the results of the last game. Thirty-five players have been eliminated, leaving 25 players remaining. Then the manager calls for a vote.
The first to be called is player 039, who has already voted for "O" and wants to continue. Player 084 votes against the game again, player 096 sticks with "O" after some thought, as does player 100. Nam-gyu votes to quit for the first time, while Min-su votes for "O" after looking at him for a long time. Geum-ja votes to quit again, of course, and player 163 votes for 0. Geum-ja now turns to the “O” players and asks them to vote “X.” She even promises them all her money and points to Jun-hee and her child asking the players to have mercy on them and let them out of this place. But the next player, 192, also votes for "O", and eventually the votes add up to  16 to 8 in favour of continuing before Gi-hun is called, who is chained up again. Therefore, it is again pretended that he abstained. Myung-gi looks at Jun-hee but doesn't dare to go to her.
In the operating room, the manager and two soldiers discover and identify the bodies of their comrades. In the corridors, No-eul instructs Gyeong-seok to follow a group of soldiers to the staff rooms and gives him the key to Soldier 16's room. Then she climbs through the air duct.
In the VIP room, the VIPs discuss the outcome of the vote and admire the front man for being right in his assessment. One of the VIPs wonders if Geum-ja really gave up all her money. Another thinks she is senile for sacrificing her son for a strange woman and her baby, rather than for money. Meanwhile, the masked officer inquires about the situation in the operating room. He is informed that several soldiers are dead. It is suspected that Soldier 16 may have been the perpetrator because his body is missing. The masked officer then checks the control room to see which soldiers are not yet in their rooms and finds Gyeong-seok in disguise there.
Geum-ja urges Jun-hee to eat and drink, telling her to think only of her child. Later, she asks Gi-hun if he really feels responsible for everything that has happened. He does not answer. She tells him about her son and says that he always blamed himself for everything that went wrong. He even tried to take his own life. She says that in the end, she killed her son herself. Then she asks Gi-hun to take care of Jun-hee and her child. After he initially refuses, she hangs herself during the night.
The masked officer orders one of the soldiers to bring Soldier 16 to him when the lights are out. He is also to find out where Soldier 11 is. But No-eul is already behind him in his room. He asks her if she is responsible for the deaths in the operating room, which she confirms. He asks her why she is risking her life to save “scum” who will die anyway. She says that it is his life that is in danger. She demands that he let her and Soldier 16 patrol the outer compound the next day and provide her with a boat. When he tells her that they will not get out of there alive, she points to the arrival of the VIPs and says that it would also be to his advantage if they left without causing a stir.

The next day, No-eul finds a key in her food, which was apparently sent to her by the masked officer. He does not believe her that it is Soldier 16 with whom she wants to escape and orders a manager to search the operating room again. In doing so, he discovers that Soldier 16 is lying on the operating table instead of a participant. He also finds out that he is wearing the clothes of player 246. The announcer announces that soldiers 10-20 are to check the outside area. 
The participants are now asked to go to the game arena for the fifth game. Gi-hun is unchained. The players are led through the structures. Jun-hee can only limp due to her injury from the last game. Gi-hun asks her to give him her child. At first she refuses. Then she hands him her baby. She blames herself for the deaths of so many other people. “It's not your fault,” Gi-hun reassures her, because they all chose to play the game. He promises to help her protect her child. 
On the boat, the new drone pilot launches a drone. Choi Woo-seok calls Jun-ho and tells him that Captain Park is lying to them all, but Jun-ho still has his doubts. He then returns to his team, who have been controlling the drone over the island. Captain Park recommends calling off the search. But before Jun-ho gives the order, he sees something that makes him take a closer look at the island. He discovers the cliff where In-ho shot him.
Woo-seok breaks into Captain Park's house. He searches it and discovers a photo of Park and the recruiter. He is attacked by Park's dog and shoots it dead. In the garden of the house, he finds money and a manager's uniform hidden in a hole in the ground. Before he can escape he is arrested by the police.
In the VIP room, one of the VIPs says that Player 222 has too many handicaps with her injury and her baby. Nevertheless, one admits to accidentally betting on Jun-hee. Whether she survives depends on the next game. The front man opens a curtain, revealing two larger-than-life figures standing on either side of a chasm crossed by a narrow bridge. One of the VIPs suggests letting the baby participate in the game as well, because a mother would do anything to save her child.
The participants enter a day and night themed room and spot Young-hee. Then they notice the bridge which is set at a massive height over a flowery patterned canyon. Player 100 asks what this is, and player 353 says it looks like they have to get to the other side. The announcer welcomes the players and informs them that the game is Jump Rope, where players must cross a bridge to get to the other side, while jumping over a rotating metal rope. They have 20 minutes to make it and the players can decide the order themselves. There's also a gap in the middle of the bridge. The players can decide for themselves in which order they cross the bridge. Gi-hun notices that Jun-hee's ankle is extremely swollen.
The VIPs applaud enthusiastically while Player 124 stares into the abyss in panic. Min-su realizes that he only has one of the drugs from Thanos' cross left. Gi-hun suggests to Jun-hee that they run across together and that he will support her. When she asks him what will happen to her baby, he tells her to leave the child there and come back for it after the game is over. One of the managers then points out that all players must cross the bridge within 20 minutes or they will be eliminated. When Jun-hee objects that her child is not a player, the manager corrects her, saying that all participants are players. Gi-hun protests, but is threatened by a soldier.
One of the VIPs remarks that this is going to be “really exciting,” while another cheers Jun-hee on. Player 100 turns to the others in agitation and says they must not waste any time, that one of them must sacrifice himself or herself and take the risk in going across first. Player 203 then challenges him to go first. While the participants argue about who should go first, Jun-hee turns to Gi-hun and begs him to save her child. Min-su asks Nam-gyu what's wrong with him and shows him Thanos' necklace. When he tries to snatch it from him, Min-su threatens to throw the necklace down. Nam-gyu begs him to give him the necklace and apologizes for treating him badly all this time. But Min-su takes the necklace and throws it far onto the bridge in a high arc to get Nam-gyu to go onto the bridge first. He does so, reaches the spot with the cross, and finds that it is empty. He freezes and is caught by the rope, which sends him plunging into the depths. Gi-hun ties his jacket around himself so that he can wrap Jun-hee's child in it. He promises her that he will come back once he has brought the child to the other side. She says she can make it on her own, but he disagrees because of her ankle. Then he steps up to the bridge.
Some VIPs are surprised that Gi-hun is helping Jun-hee. He runs, stumbles, hesitates at the gap, then jumps, stumbles again, and finally makes it to the other side. The participants cheer. He holds the child up high, and Jun-hee smiles. In the meantime, other players jump and successfully cross the bridge. When Player 312 arrives, Player 096, who arrived before him, pushes him down. When Gi-hun asks him in horror what he is doing, he replies, “What do you think? I'm playing!”

Starring[]
Main[]
Lee Jung-jae as Seong Gi-hun (Player 456)
Lee Byung-hun as Hwang In-ho (The Frontman)
Wi Ha-joon as Hwang Jun-ho
Im Si-wan as Lee Myung-gi (Player 333)
Park Gyu-young as Kang No-eul (Guard 011)
Kang Ae-shim as Jang Geum-ja (Player 149)
Jo Yu-ri as Kim Jun-hee (Player 222)
Lee Jin-wook as Park Gyeong-seok (Player 246/Guard 016)
Jeon Seok-ho as Choi Woo-seok
Song Young-chang as Im Jeong-dae (Player 100)
Roh Jae-won as Nam-gyu (Player 124)
Lee David as Park Min-su (Player 125)
Guest Starring[]
David Sayers as VIP Richard
Jane Wong as VIP Jennifer
Bryan Bucco as VIP John
Jordan Lambertoni as VIP Jack
Kevin Yorn as VIP Kevin
Recurring[]
Woo Jung-kook as Player 039
Park Jae-hong as Player 084
Lee Suk as Player 096
Han Tae-eun as Player 163
Jang Tae-min as Player 192
Lee Won-chul as Player 209
David Kim as Player 260
Kim-Choi Yong-joon as Player 276
Woo Kang-min as Player 296
Lee Kyung-min as Player 306
Kim Dae-heung as Player 312
Kim Geum-sun as Player 349
Shin Hee-chul as Player 377
Park Jong-young as Player 435
Seo Ho-chul as Player 442
Lee Ji-yu as Player 448
Sung Do-hyun as Mercenary Team Leader Kim
Park Hee-soon as Masked Officer
Choi Jae-hwan as Kim Mu-dong
Oh Dal-su as Park Yeong-gil
Yang Dong-geun as Park Yong-sik (Player 007; deceased)
Park Sung-hoon as Cho Hyun-ju (Player 120; deceased)
Kang Ha-neul as Kang Dae-ho (Player 388; deceased)
Chae Kook-hee as Seon-nyeo (Player 044; deceased)
Deaths[]
Player 296 (Shot repeatedly by Jennifer for failing to kill a hider in time during Hide and Seek)
Player 028 (Shot repeatedly by guards for failing to kill a hider in time during Hide and Seek)
Player 048 (Shot repeatedly by guards for failing to kill a hider in time during Hide and Seek)
Player 080 (Shot repeatedly by guards for failing to kill a hider in time during Hide and Seek)
Player 119 (Shot repeatedly by guards for failing to kill a hider in time during Hide and Seek)
Player 154 (Shot repeatedly by guards for failing to kill a hider in time during Hide and Seek)
Player 191 (Shot repeatedly by guards for failing to kill a hider in time during Hide and Seek)
Player 359 (Shot repeatedly by guards for failing to kill a hider in time during Hide and Seek)
Player 443  (Shot repeatedly by Kevin for failing to kill a hider in time during Hide and Seek)
Park Yeong-gil's dog (Shot in the head by Choi Woo-seok)
Jang Geum-ja (Committed suicide in the dormitory, due to guilt of stabbing her son by hanging herself)
Nam-gyu (Knocked off the bridge by the rope and fell to his death after Park Min-su threw his cross onto the bridge during Jump Rope.)
Player 312 (Fell to his death after being pushed off the finishing platform by Player 096 during Jump Rope.)
Trivia[]
This episode features the Jump Rope game.
This episode features the first appearance of the 2024 VIPs.
This episode and 222 are similar to the Season 1 episode: VIPS.
Player 296 is the first death of this episode.
It's title refers to the first two episodes of season three, with many main characters arguing who is at fault for the failed rebellion and the rebles' deaths.It also refers to Jun-hee's baby, who, as Geum-ja mentioned, is not her fault for being born in the Squid Games.
References[]
Squid GameSeason 1
Red Light, Green Light
Hell
The Man with the Umbrella
Stick to the Team
A Fair World
Gganbu
VIPS
Front Man
One Lucky Day
Season 2
Bread and Lottery
Halloween Party
001
Six Legs
One More Game
O X
Friend or Foe
Season 3
Keys and Knives
The Starry Night
It's Not Your Fault
222
⭘△☐
Humans Are...