Title: Jang Geum-ja's ex-husband
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Jang_Geum-ja%27s_ex-husband
--------------------------------------------------
Park Yong-sik's father






Name
Unknown (Park ?-?)


Aliases
Dad (by Park Yong-sik)


Family
Jang Geum-ja † (ex-wife)Park Yong-sik † (son)Unnamed ex-mother-in-law †Unnamed mistress †?  (mentioned by Park Yong-sik in One More Game) 


Born
1940s-1950s (presumably)South Korea


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
Unknown date


Cause of death
Unknown



Physical Description

Gender
Male



Appearances

Portrayed by
N/A





First appearance
Last appearance




"001"(mentioned)
"It's Not Your Fault" (mentioned)






Park Yong-sik's father is a mentioned character in Season 2. He was the abusive ex-husband of Jang Geum-ja and the father of Park Yong-sik.

Contents

1 History

1.1 Fate


2 Trivia
3 Behind the scenes


History[]
Very little is known about him except for information handed to us through the show, or context clues we can pick up. Given his wife's age, it's fairly safe to assume that he he was born in 1940-1950s and grew up during the Korean war just like his wife Geum-ja.
At some point he met Geum-ja, they got married and had a son. It is mentioned that he was both unfaithful to his wife and abusive. It is said he physically and (very likely) verbally abused her.
Later, him and Geum-ja would get divorced.

Fate[]
At some point prior to 2024, he would die from an unknown cause/causes. The most likely candidate is from old age.

Trivia[]
He is similar to Ji-yeong's father, who was also mentioned to be abusive towards his family.
It is unknown if he was also abusive to Yong-sik. It is possible since Yong-sik refers casually to him beating Geum-ja but still uncertain because it is feasible Yong-sik would also have mentioned that [if his father abused him physically or emotionally] in the same conversation.
Behind the scenes[]
Park Yong-sik's father was portrayed by no one. He is only a mentioned, unseen character in the series.