Title: Junhee
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Junhee
--------------------------------------------------
Kim Jun-hee






Name
Kim Jun-hee


Aliases
Player 222 (37th Squid Game)


Family
Unnamed daughterUnnamed parents †


Relationships
AlliesJang Geum-ja † (close friend, mother figure and protector)Cho Hyun-ju † (close friend, protecter)Seong Gi-hun † (close friend, protector and attempted savior)Hwang In-ho (close friend, disguised enemy)Park Jung-bae † (close friend)Park Gyeong-seok (ally)Kim Young-mi † (ally during Mingle)Kwon Byeong-su † (ally)Player 145 † (ally)NeutralSeon-nyeo † (ally in the first round of Mingle)Kang Dae-ho † (close friend, distanced after the revolt)Park Yong-sik † (friend, attempted killer out of desperation)EnimiesLee Myung-gi † (ex-boyfriend, protector during Mingle, enemy after Hide and Seek)Kim Yeong-sam † (enemy, attempted killer)


Affiliation
Squid Games37th Squid GameTeam XTeam 73HidersSeekers (formerly)


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
November 6, 2024[1]Jump Rope


Cause of death
Committed suicide by falling to her death.



Physical Description

Gender
Female


Eye color
Black


Hair color
Black with blonde highlights



Appearances

Portrayed by
Jo Yu-riAn unknown extra





First appearance
Last appearance




"Bread and Lottery"
"Humans Are..." (mentioned)







Voting




Round 1
Round 2
Round 3















Round 3 Tie
Round 4












I was afraid I'd end up alone again if I didn't keep the baby. I thought the baby was going to be my family, someone who'd be with me forever. No matter how hard it might be, I thought having my own baby would make me happier. But because of me... both Hyun-ju and Ms. Jang... Because of me...
Jun-hee's talking to Gi-hun while walking through the stairs in "It's Not Your Fault"

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 221
Player 223







Kim Jun-hee (김준희 Gim Jun-hee?), also known as Player 222, was a contestant in the 37th Squid Game, as well as one of the few semifinalists of the competition.

Contents

1 Personality
2 History

2.1 Backstory
2.2 2024
2.3 Fate


3 Kill count
4 Trivia
5 Behind the scenes
6 Appearances
7 Gallery

7.1 Season 2
7.2 Season 3
7.3 Behind the scenes
7.4 Promotional


8 References


Personality
Kim Jun-hee presents herself as very reserved around most people. She tries to keep her independence throughout the games, no matter how poor her state. She is dismissive of those who do her wrong, primarily Myung-gi, telling him to leave her alone on multiple occasions. While trying to keep her tough appearance, inside, she has moments of breakage, such as her time in the bathroom. Despite this, she presents herself as kind and open once she forms relationships with people, such as Gi-hun, Geum-ja, Hyun-ju, and Jung-bae, tending to smile and laugh. Her independence can become unhealthy, as she tries to get Geum-ja and Hyun-ju to leave her behind in Hide and Seek, and tells Gi-hun she can make it across the Jump Rope bridge on her own. It is also rooted in guilt and self hatred, as she states that she blames herself for the deaths of Hyun-ju and Geum-ja. By the end, Jun-hee values her allies over herself, opting to let herself die in order to keep her baby safe.

History
Backstory
Jun-hee was orphaned at an unknown age and had no family to help her. She later dated Lee Myung-gi, a popular YouTuber known as MG Coin, and became involved with cryptocurrency. At his behest, she bought a coin called Dalmatian and lost ₩30 million when it was revealed to be a scam. She broke up with Myung-gi soon after.
At some point early in 2024, Jun-hee got pregnant because of Myung-gi. He knew about this and told Jun-hee to get an abortion, but she didn't. After Myung-gi vanished for six months, Jun-hee believed he had died, likely murdered by someone who he scammed.
She plays Ddakji against a recruiter, a game she is very skilled at, causing her to win more times than him. She receives the card from him and heads to a gynecology appointment, where she attempts to call Myung-gi, but he does not answer, provoking her to leave before seeing the doctor. Unbeknownst to her, Myung-gi had been approached by The Recruiter at the same time.

2024
Jun-hee wakes up in the Dormitory and recognizes Myung-gi as he is confronted by one of the guards, and then again by two of his former subscribers - Thanos and Nam-gyu - who also lost money thanks to his channel. However, she does not reveal her presence to him. 
The Players all participate in "Red Light Green Light", and Jun-hee hides in a line behind Jang Geum-ja. Jun-hee begins suffering from severe contraction pains from her pregnancy, causing her to accidentally nudge Geum-ja and catch the attention of the doll, but Thanos pushes Players 216, 257, and 270, causing her to be ignored, after that, Jang Geum-ja is understanding and tells her to lean on her for support. Jun-hee successfully passes the game despite the pain and votes "X” to end the game. Afterward, Geum-ja goes to her and gives her the egg from her meal, having deduced she is pregnant, and explains the pain is because Jun-hee is purposefully compressing her stomach. She tells Jun-hee to come to her if she needs any help before her son, Park Yong-sik, appears and takes her away.
Jun-hee sees Myung-gi being beaten up by Thanos and Nam-gyu before Young-il stops them. She goes over to him afterward, believing Myung-gi had been purposefully ignoring her, only to learn he had not realized she was in the games. He is confused as to why she would need to be there, but she reminds him he scammed her too. He is also annoyed to learn that she never got an abortion. She tells him that he is the reason she cannot return home and keep their baby safe, as he voted "O”, and that she did not go see him reconcile, but to see his injuries.  
When the next game is revealed to be a team game, Jun-hee is left alone due to having made no allies. Myung-gi approaches her and asks to team up, but she refuses. She approaches Seong Gi-hun, Hwang In-ho, Park Jung-bae , and Kang Dae-ho and asks to join their team; despite just having picked a fifth member, they agree to help her. As the pentathlon's games are revealed, the team asks her to play Gonggi, classifying it as a "girl's game". However, she replies that she does not know how to play, instead asking to play Ddakji. The team is demoralized when the first few groups are killed, but they are later shown supporting the first winning team. They are the final team to go, with Jun-hee managing to pass Ddakji with the first throw; eventually, they all successfully cross the finish line even with Jun-hee's stomach pains returning. Their celebration is cut short when the team opposite them is executed for being too slow.
When returning, Jun-hee bows politely to Geum-ja and Yong-sik who wave at her, relieved at her survival. Jun-hee shares her name with her team as they all discuss themselves and cement their alliance. At the voting, Jun-hee again votes "X" to leave the game, and Myung-gi changes his vote to "X" because of her. However, "O" still wins, and although Myung-gi stays behind when the groups dissipate, she does not talk to him. During the night, Jun-hee has to go to the bathroom but is nervous due to her team being all-male, so Geum-ja says they can go together. After the guards refuse to open the door to Jun-hee, Geum-ja purposefully makes a scene to force them to open the doors, and the pair are joined by Geum-ja's ally Cho Hyun-ju. Hyun-ju notices Jun-hee's odd behavior and stomach pains, and asks what is happening, with Geum-ja admits the truth. When Jun-hee stays in her bathroom stall for a long time, Geum-ja becomes worried and enters to find Jun-hee sobbing, as she is terrified for her child and herself; Geum-ja hugs and attempts to comfort her. The scene moves Hyun-ju, who regrets voting "O".
The third game is "Mingle" and Jun-hee sticks with her chosen alliance of Gi-hun, In-ho, Jung-bae, and Dae-ho, however, the first number is 10, causing them to join with Hyun-ju's four-person alliance consisting of her, Yong-Sik, Geum-ja and Kim Young-mi, with Hyun-ju securing Seon-nyeo as the final member. In the small room, Seon-nyeo notices Jun-hee holding her belly and gives an ominous prediction to Gi-hun, telling him that there is a reason he lived longer: that he was destined to and there was a reason he was brought here. When the number is 4, In-ho splits from the group to allow them to survive and Jun-hee is relieved to discover he also survived the round afterwards. The team jokes about her unborn baby possibly counting as a sixth member of the group, whilst Myung-gi watches. In the next round, the number is 3, so Gi-hun and In-ho tell Jun-hee, Jung-bae, and Dae-ho to go together while they look for 1 more player, when they leave the rooms, Jun-hee, Jung-bae, and Dae-ho go with Gi-hun and In-ho and see Yong-sik crying and Geum-ja comforting him (since they had separated during the confusion). When the number is 6, the groups join together and quickly sort out a solution, however, Jun-hee's group is unable to find a free room until the end of the time. In the confusion, Young-mi is knocked down and falls to the floor, the team arrives at the room, Hyun-ju discovers that Young-mi stayed behind and tries to save her, but Myung-gi realizes that there is not enough time, so he enters the room and closes the door. Myung-gi turns to look at the team, Jun-hee realizes that it is him and that he saved her life, Young-mi is shot and killed, Hyun-ju is devastated by Young-mi's death and blames Myung-gi, Myung-gi declares that it isn't his fault and that there was no time to save her, Myung-gi asks the team if they agree and Jun-hee says that Myung-gi is right, to which Dae-ho agrees since there was no time. As they leave the room, Myung-gi thanks Jun-hee for supporting him, though she declares that she only did so because he was right. The next and final number is 2, so everyone rushes to grab someone and get to a room, Myung-gi immediately grabs Jun-hee and takes her to Room 34 to save her.
When everyone returns to the dormitory, Myung-gi pulls Jun-hee aside and asks to start over with her, stating that the "X" team will likely win the vote and their conjoined prize money will remove his debt. Jun-hee believes he simply wants to use her money and will abandon her and the child, especially when he begins talking about his new investment scheme, and leaves. Thanos and Nam-gyu see the pair holding hands whilst talking, and deduce they are likely romantically involved. During the vote, Jun-hee again votes "X", only for the vote to be a tie. Unbeknownst to her, in the bathroom, Thanos taunts Myung-gi about the nature of his relationship with Jun-hee, provoking a fight. Jun-hee witnesses Myung-gi exiting the bathroom in a state of shock, covered in blood, and is silently concerned.
Jun-hee listens to Gi-hun's plan to hide under the beds and wait until the guards enter to stop the inevitable attack from the "O" side, then attack them and steal their guns. Once everyone prepares, Jun-hee goes over to Myung-gi and tells him not to fight, instead to hide the entire night even when the guards arrive, to which he agrees.
After the Special Game, Gi-hun wanted to rebel the games, Myung-gi wanted to join but Jun-hee told him not to. Suddenly guards enter the dormitory holding a coffin, Hyun-ju, Jun-hee and others check the coffin, and inside was Gi-hun. Geum-ja, Jun-hee and others were checking on him when he woke up. When the guards come back, Gi-hun was crying and begging to kill himself, Jun-hee felt bad for him. 
The voting starts, and Jun-hee votes 'X' again in the voting after the Revolt. In the Next game, She initially gets a red ball meaning she's a Seeker, but Myung-gi approaches her and asks her to switch teams so he can kill other players to protect her. Jun-hee disagrees at first, but later swaps with Myung-gi. During the game, she starts feeling really weak, Geum-ja and Hyun-ju notices and they team up. She breaks her ankle while trying to walk up the stairs and running from Kim Yeong-sam, but the later is killed and the trio hides in a room. Unfortunately, her water breaks and she goes into labor. She gives birth to the baby through the help of Geum-ja and Hyun-ju sets out to find an exit. Hyun-ju finds the exit and tremens back to tell the group, However, Myung-gi stabs Hyun-ju in front of Jun-hee, shocking her. She and Geum-ja then walk to the exit Hyun-ju found yet right before they open the door Jun-hee noticed Yong-sik, who had not passed. Yong-sik first was told by Geum-ja to kill her, but he doesn't want to kill his mother, so he goes for Jun-hee, he hesitates seeing the baby but then is stabbed by Geum-ja in the back. Jun-hee watches as the 2 engage in a last moment before Yong-sik is shot by guards for not passing. 
She returns to the dormitory, with Geum-ja assisting her and the baby. She votes 'X'. When she wakes up the next morning, Jun-hee sees Geum-ja's dead corpse after she committed suicide by hanging herself, leaving Jun-hee devastated and tearing up. While walking to the next game, she gives the baby to Gi-hun and talks about how she blames herself for the deaths of Hyun-ju and Geum-ja as well as her life. Gi-hun comforts her. As she enters the arena, she rests on the bench and gives her baby to Gi-hun who manages to pass the game.

Fate
After hurting her ankle in Hide and Seek, Jun-hee is unable to jump properly in the next game, Gi-hun decides to get her baby across then come back and save her. However after Gi-hun passed the game, he was unable to return to her because the path was already filled with players. In the final seconds, realizing that she is unable to pass, Jun-hee decides to walk off the platform to her death, telling Gi-hun to care for and save her baby.Gi-hun: No. Jun-hee, don't. Wait! No! I'll get there! You'll make it through. Jun-hee!Jun-hee: Please don't come. Just stay there! If you don't survive, my baby will die too. You said the most important thing… was saving my little girl. That's what I'm trying to do right now. Watch over her.
Jun-hee's last request to Gi-hun to take care of her baby before sacrificing herself.  https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/File:Watchoverher.mp3     


Kill count


Character

Information

Image/GIF


"222"Jump Rope


Herself

Committed suicide by jumping off of the Jump Rope's starting platform.



Trivia
Similar to Kang Sae-byeok in season one, Kim Jun-hee is the latest female player die in the game. (one is 33rd Squid Game, other one is 37th Squid Game)
Jun-hee, Myung-gi, and Park Gyeong-seok are the only players introduced to the audience before the games. Ironically, in season 1 the only players shown as Seong Gi-hun, Kang Sae-byeok , and Cho Sang-woo, the final 3 survivors of season 1.
The 3 are also the players focused on after everyone completes Red Light Green Light; which also happens with the major characters in season 1.
This is probably the only time in the Korean Squid Games where a player number is used by more than one person in the same edition, being her with her daughter.
She is the only player who her icon reappears after her elimination due that her baby take back her number player, becaming Player 222
Jun-hee's death artistically evokes that of Rue from The Hunger Games for several reasons:
Before dying, both of them asked her best friends to survive and win their respective games at all costs. Rue with Katniss Everdeen and Jun-hee with Gi-hun.
Both died surrounded by flowers. In Rue's case, Katniss prepared a bed of flowers for her wake; in Jun-hee's case, the Jump Rope game's floor emulates a field of flowers. The artistic director even commented that she and director Hwang Dong-hyuk struggled to depict Jun-hee's death scene until they settled on a floral design to symbolically emulate her death in a bed of flowers. Whether this similarity is intentional or not is unknown.
Jun-hee would have to survive Six Legged-Pentathlon for the divisive money being enough for her to pay her debt, since the money after Red Lights Green Light was 24,391,500 won.
She shares similarities with Park Hee-su from All of Us Are Dead, as both were pregnant and gave birth to their baby in the middle of a bad situation. Episode "222" is named after her, making her one of only five characters or groups in the series to have an episode named after them, alongside Hwang In-ho, Seong Gi-hun, Oh Il-nam, and The VIPs as a whole.
In her baby picture, Jo Yu-ri bears a resemblance to Jun-hee's baby.
She is one of the only main characters to never directly interact with an unnamed player.
Behind the scenes
Kim Jun-hee was portrayed by Jo Yu-ri, who is also well known for being a soloist and a former member of the project girl group IZ*ONE.

Appearances
Season Two
"Bread and Lottery"
"001"
"Six Legs"
"One More Game"
"O X"
"Friend or Foe"
Season Three
"Keys and Knives"
"The Starry Night"
"It's Not Your Fault"
"222"
"Humans Are..." (mentioned)
Gallery
Season 2
Kim Jun-hee who calls Myung-gi.Jun-hee calling Myung-gi.Jun-hee dissapointed after Myung-gi doesn't answer her call.Jun-hee looks at her card.Kim Jun-hee's icon.Jun-hee after waking up in the dormitory.Ditto.Jun-hee looking at the piggy bank.Jun-hee watching Geum-ja scold her son.Ditto.Jun-hee waiting in line to sign the player consent form.Ditto.Jun-hee moving foward.Jun-hee smiling.Jun-hee walking up the stairs.Jun-hee enters the Red Light, Green Light arena.Jun-hee looking around.Jun-hee reacts at Gi-hun's warnings.Another Player 222 standing still at the Beginning of Red light, Green light.Jun-hee standing still.Jun-hee standing still during the panic.Jun-hee standing behind Jang Geum-ja.Jun-hee running towards the finish line.Ditto.Jun-hee after surviving Red Light, Green Light.Jun-hee looking at the piggy bank.Jun-hee during the first vote.Jun-hee voting X in the first vote.Jun-hee after voting.Jun-hee looking disappointed after Team X loses the first vote.Jun-hee looking at Geum-ja after the first vote.Jun-hee going to sleep.Jun-hee talking to Myung-gi.Jun-hee looks at Myung-gi.Jun-hee looking at Myung-gi again.Jun-hee taking his hand off her shoulder.Jun-hee talks to Myung-gi again.Jun-hee holds his O patch.Jun-hee walks away.Jun-hee walking to the second game.Ditto.Jun-hee searching for teammates in the Six-Legged Pentathlon arena.Ditto.Jun-hee as Myung-gi approaches her.Jun-hee looks at Myung-gi.Jun-hee turning to leave.Jun-hee leaves Myung-gi.Jun-hee telling her teammates she doesn't know how to play Gonggi.Jun-hee witnesses the deaths of the first two teams.Jun-hee celebrating after Cho Hyun-ju's team passed.Jun-hee watching as Myung-gi exiting the Six-Legged Pentathlon arena.Jun-hee getting ready for teams turn.Jun-hee playing ddakji.Jun-hee after completing ddakji.Jun-hee in the dormitory after Six-Legged Pentathlon.Jun-hee with her teammates after the Six-Legged Pentathlon.Jun-hee with Cho Hyun-ju and Geum-ja.Jun-hee walking up to the bathroom.Ditto.Jun-hee looking at Geum-ja.Jun-hee going into a bathroom stall.Jun-hee crying in the bathroom.Ditto.Jun-hee hugging Geum-ja.Jun-hee making her way up to the next gameDitto.Jun-hee looking at the timer.Jun-hee looking outside.Jun-hee in Mingle.Jun-hee with her teammates in Mingle.Jun-hee before round 4 of Mingle.Jun-hee running into a room that is already occupied.Jun-hee running to a room in round 4 of Mingle.Jun-hee after Kim Young-mi's death.Jun-hee looking at Lee Myung-gi.Jun-hee exiting a room after round 4 of Mingle.Jun-hee with Lee Myung-gi running to room 34.Jun-hee walking down the stairs after Mingle.Jun-hee talking to Lee Myung-gi after Mingle.Jun-hee walking up to vote.Jun-hee pressing the X button during round 3 of voting.Jun-hee in her bed before the Special Game.Geum-ja, Jun-hee and Yong-sik in the Special Game.Jun-hee turns her head towards Myung-gi.Jun-hee looks at Myung-gi.Jun-hee tells Myung-gi to not join the revolt team.Jun-hee after the revolt team leaves.Jun-hee looking at the ammo before Dae-ho leaves.
Season 3
Jun-hee and co approaching the coffin.Ditto.Jun-hee looks at Gi-hun after he came to his senses.Ditto.Jun-hee watching Gi-hun beg for death.Jun-hee watching Gi-hun begging the guards to kill him.Jun-hee after getting her food.Jun-hee as Lee Myung-gi gives her another Potato.Jun-hee using gumball machine.Jun-hee holding a red ball.Ditto.Jun-hee as a seeker.Jun-hee talks to Myung-gi.Ditto.Hyun-ju's team noticing Yeong-sam.Hyun-ju's team running away.Geum-ja, Jun-hee and Hyun-ju running away from Kim Yeong-sam.Jun-hee on the ground after falling.Jun-hee after hearing that Lee Myung-gi has passed the game.Jun-hee seeing her daughter for the first time.Jun-hee after giving birth to her baby.Jun-hee holding her baby.Jun-hee looking at Lee Myung-gi after he stabbed Cho Hyun-ju.Jun-hee as Geum-ja starts to open the exit.Jun-hee looking at Park Yong-sik.Jun-hee about to be stabbed by Yong-sik.Jun-hee walking into the Dormitory after Hide and Seek.Jun-hee in the 5th vote.Jun-hee after the vote.Jun-hee feeling guilty about Yong-sik's death.Jun-hee with her baby.Ditto, sleeping.Jun-hee crying after seeing Geum-ja's corpse.Gi-hun asks Jun-hee to let him carry the baby.Jun-hee explaining why she didn't want an abortion.Jun-hee after Gi-hun pass with her baby.Jun-hee is happy because Gi-hun managed to cross the bridge with her daughter.Jun-hee talking to Lee Myung-gi in Jump Rope.Ditto.Jun-hee hoping that she and her daughter never have to meet him again.Jun-hee looks at Gi-hun in timer 00:10.Jun hee before she falling in Jump Rope.Jun-hee's final moment.Jun-hee during Jump Rope.Jun-hee's corpse.Jun-hee's icon after Seong Gi-hun dies.Player 222 winner card.
Behind the scenes
Kim Jun-hee and Kim Young-mi posing together.
Promotional
Kim Jun-hee's in the "Welcome Players" teaser.Jun-hee's promotional icon.Jun-hee at Red Light, Green Light game. (promotional photo)Jun-hee and Lee Myung-gi.Kim Jun-hee's poster.Kim Jun-hee beside Gyeong-seok.
References

↑ During the 37th Squid Game, which began on November 1, a day was skipped when the players tied the vote after Mingle, with Jump Rope occurring on November 6, and the final game happening on November 7.

Season Two37th Squid GameMain Characters
001
007
120
149
222
230
333
388
390
456
Major Characters
044
047
095
100
124
125
196
226
246
256
380
Supporting Characters
004
006
009
015
016
043
050
066
072
096
145
172
178
189
192
197
198
206
220
254
283
285
313
324
336
343
348
353
394
400
418
442
444
Minor Characters
031
039
045
067
080
084
135
140
165
185
188
199
202
203
209
216
237
238
239
249
257
260
263
270
286
306
308
328
331
350
355
371
384
395
401
415
416
435
448
453
454
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
Others
The Salesman
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Kang Eun-ji
Park Jung-bae
Ex-wifeM
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Chief Kim
Lee Ju-hong
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Mr. Kim
Choi Woo-seok
Lee Jang-uk
Hwang Jae-hun
Yun Jun-ho
Sea Captains
Sea Captain Park
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-wooN
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Hwang In-ho's wife
Kang Sae-byeokNP
Kang Sae-byeok's motherP
Kang Cheol
Park Mal-soon
Park Mi-yeong
Broker
Dentist
Season Three37th Squid GameMain Characters
007
120
124
125
149
222B
246PG
333
388
456
Major Characters
039
044
096
100
203
226
306
336
353
Supporting Characters
006
009
172
192
197
202
230H
232
235
260
349
377
380H
390C
394
400
411
418
442
447
Minor Characters
024
028
047C
048
080
084
105
119
134
145
154
163
191
209
241
276
296
310
312
334
344
350
359
435
440
443
448
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Kim Jung-ho
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
VIPs
Richard
Jennifer
John
Jack
Kevin
Others
Waiters
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Choi Woo-seok
Kim Mu-dong
Sea Captains
Park Yeong-gil
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Kang Sae-byeokH
Kang Sae-byeok's mother
Kang Cheol
Oh Il-namF
Park Man-cheol