Title: Kang No-eul
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Kang_No-eul
--------------------------------------------------
Kang No-eul





							2025
							
						



							2024
							
						



							2016-2017
							
						



							Masked
							
						

































Name
Kang No-eul


Aliases
Number 011Bunny (by Park Na-yeon)Commie (by Number 005) Kang Doo-wei  (french dub)


Family
Han Su-cheol † (husband)Han Song-i (daughter)


Relationships
AlliesPark Gyeong-seok (saved)Park Na-yeon (friend)Park Man-cheolNeutralSeong Gi-hun † (indirect savior)Kim Nam-du † (victim)Player 066 † (victim)Player 188 † (victim)Player 237 † (victim)Jang Do-yeong † (victim)Seoul Land staff (former coworkers)EnemiesThe Officer † (arch-nemesis/victim, former employer)Soldier 005 † (arch-enemy, faked ally/friend; victim)Soldier 007 † (enemy/victim)Kim Jung-ho † (forced ally, enemy/victim)Soldier 025 † (enemy/victim)


Affiliation
Korean People's Army (formerly)Seoul Land (formerly)Squid Games (formerly)


Occupation
Korean People's Army sergeant (formerly)Costume performer (formerly)Squid Game soldier (formerly)


Born
June 25, 1994 (age 30)[1]Hamhung, South Hamgyong Province, North Korea


Fate

Status
Alive



Physical Description

Gender
Female


Eye color
Brown


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Park Gyu-youngKim Cha-i (Stunt Double)Choi Jun-seok (Best Stunt)





First appearance
Last appearance




"Halloween Party"
"Humans Are..."







Back when you first told me what I'd have to do in, here, the way you said it was I'd be helping people with no hope and misery so they wouldn't have to suffer anymore. And I believed you. That's the reason I came here. You've changed, sir, not me.
Kang No-eul confronting the Masked Officer in "Six Legs"
Kang No-eul (강노을 Gang No-eul?) is a North Korean defector who appears in Season 2 and Season 3 of Squid Game. She is first seen as part of the staff in Seoul Land as a bunny cosplayer, then later on abandons her job to work as a soldier in the 37th Squid Game.
In the games, No-eul made an unseen connection with Park Gyeong-seok, the father of Park Na-yeon, a five-year-old girl No-eul had formed a bond with prior to entering the 37th Squid Game. Her ultimate goals were to save Gyeong-seok and to earn enough money to find and reunite with her daughter, whom she was forced to leave behind while defecting.

Contents

1 History

1.1 Backstory
1.2 2024
1.3 Season 3


2 Kill count
3 Quotes

3.1 Season 2
3.2 Season 3


4 Trivia
5 Behind the scenes
6 Appearances
7 Gallery

7.1 Season 2
7.2 Season 3
7.3 Promotional
7.4 BTS/Stunt Double (Kim Cha-i)
7.5 Merchandise


8 References


History
Backstory
You wanna know why I came down from the North? My commander was a lot like you, and I put a bullet to his head.
Kang No-eul to Number 005 revealing why she came from North Korea before killing him off in "Keys and Knives"
No-eul was born on June 25th, 1994 in North Korea. As an adult, she became a soldier, got married to Han Su-cheol, and gave birth to her daughter on May 26th, 2016. She defected from North Korea alone to the South (South Korea) in 2017 by killing her superior officer and escaping to the demarcation line, dispatching the pursuit team sent after her as well. Before killing Number 005, she claims that her officer was much like him. She was forced to leave her baby behind due to this.
Immediately after defecting, No-eul began working part-time as a character performer at Seoul Land, an amusement park, to earn the money to find her daughter,[2] and lived and slept in her car. Her goal is to reunite with her child.[3]
She met the Masked Officer in the hospital afterwards, where he could not believe she was the strong soldier he had heard about. He had begun researching her in 2019 and she was hired in May of 2020.

2024
No-eul slept in her car outside the amusement park when a police officer woke her up and told her not to sleep there anymore, to which she reluctantly agreed. No-eul was in her bunny costume when she saw the young child Park Na-yeon, and gave her a lollipop. As her and her co-workers returned to their dressing room, Na-yeon appeared and went over to No-eul, giving her a sketch she made of the two of them. No-eul is flattered, but then the girl noticed slits on her wrist, which she hastily covered up. Another co-worker entered, swearing and without the head of his costume, this caused Na-yeon to burst into tears and her father, Park Gyeong-seok, arrived, and left with her. No-eul learnt that Park Gyeong-seok was an artist at the park, and that Na-yeon has blood cancer.
That night, No-eul slept in her car again and was woken up, believing it to be the police she apologizes and goes to move her car, but instead the unknown person hands her a Squid Game card and leaves. The next day, she quits her job and refuses her manager and co-workers offers of dinner. They wonder how she managed a job like a costumed performer with her personality, mentioning in all of the years of them working together she never spoke directly to anyone.
Leaving the park, No-eul sees Na-yeon being loaded into the back of an ambulance and Gyeong-seok rushing to see her. In the confusion, her strawberry hat is left behind, No-eul goes to the hospital with the hat and returns it to the unconscious girl, then holds her hand, leaving before anyone sees her. That night, she calls the number on the card and gives her information, before burning it along with Na-yeon's drawing.
She headed to a parking lot in Songpa-gu and entered a semi truck parked there. Inside, she entered a small compartment labeled 011 before putting on her soldier uniform.

     Kang No-eul during Red Light, Green Light  
During Red Light, Green Light, she recognizes Player 246 as Park Gyeong-seok in the crowd, and is seemingly conflicted. Later, one of the other snipers intentionally only shoots an eliminated player in the leg to keep them alive for the underground organ harvesting operation. However she finishes the player off, this frustrates the corrupt guards although she seems indifferent.
Later, she is summoned to see the Masked Officer. She has a discussion with the officer and warns her to not interfere with their operation, mentioning their seven-year history with each other. However, No-eul remains unaffected by this encounter and continues her mercy killings. 
In the next game, No-eul interrupts a pair of workers and orders them to drop a coffin with an alive player inside and proceeds to execute the player to prevent them from being harvested. This infuriates the corrupt guards for disrupting their operation twice in a row. Later that day, she is pinned down by two corrupt guards. They make rude comments about her before she manages to push them off her and fight back against them but she is eventually overwhelmed and pinned down. She is given a cut on her cheek and warned not to interfere with the organ harvesting operation again. She is visibly shaken by this encounter.
In the third game, it is shown she has listened to their threat and ignores two guards (presumably the same ones who attacked her) leaving a player intentionally alive and instead walks away. She notices Gyeong-seok is still alive and watches him intently throughout the rounds. She is later stopped by one of the corrupt guards who praises her for giving in and not interfering with the operation any further. However, the officer still advises them to keep an eye on her. 
In Friend or Foe, she is called as a response to the ongoing revolt organized by Gi-hun. She survives (being likely in the massive force of guards the players encounter as they journey up the stairs), and is the one who non-fatally shot Gyeong-seok, only to rescue him afterwards.

Season 3
I gave it some more thought. If they're just gonna die anyway, might as well give their organs to people who can still be saved.
Kang No-eul to Number 005 about using the players' organs to help save lives after sparing Gyeong-seok's life in "Keys and Knives"
In "Keys and Knives" we see Gyeong-seok from her perspective, pleading to not be shot; No-eul shoots him in a non-fatal area, and tells him to close his eyes if he wants to live. She scans his tracker (resulting in his elimination), and he is brought to the operating room afterwards, although this act is seen as suspicious by Number 005; No-eul convinces him that now she is one of them and they both go to the operating room. The harvesters are surprised by No-eul joining, so they welcome her in being a part of the group, and right before the harvesters begin to operate and harvest Gyeong-seok's organs, No-eul interrupts them by knocking Number 005 in his chin, and immediately takes her MP5 to put them in gunpoint, only to then shoot everyone except the doctor; she does so in order to let the doctor reanimate Gyeong-seok by the transfusion of her blood into Gyeong-seok's body, only to kill the doctor afterwards. She then begins to come up with an escape plan for Gyeong-seok and disguises him as Number 016 order to get him out of the operation room. 
As they both ascend the stairs, he walks at a slow pace due to the freshly stitched incision where No-eul previously shot him and she tells him to push through, as they don't have time on their side. Gyeong-seok then says "I don't get it, why are you helping me?" This makes her pause and give a curt response that if he wants to live, then he must follow her instructions. Afterwards, they both shortly reach the main floor.
When the soldiers are going back to their rooms for the night, No-eul spots them and instructs him to follow them. She then gives him the key to the room he will be staying in for the meantime and warns him of a surveillance camera inside it so he needs to be careful. She watches him leave and spots a ceiling vent. She climbs the ledge on the wall and enters it to reach the Masked Officer's room. He is unaware that she is behind him as he gives the orders to bring Number 016 to him and track her down since Number 011 hasn't returned to their room. 
No-eul then states she is right behind him. He turns around to see her pointing her rifle at him and sees the opened vent she got through from before asking if the mess in the operation room was her doing. She nods and he begins to ask why since they are just harvesting organs from useless "trash" that were going to die anyways so why would she risk her own life over it. No-eul retorts that from where she stands, he is the one risking his. He then asks what does she want. No-eul then states both her and 016 will patrol the outer perimeter the following morning. This makes him baffled before asking if she and the doctor knew one another. She doesn't answer his question and simply states again that she wants him to get the both of them a boat. He warns her that it's not easy to escape the island. She retorts again that the VIPs have arrived on the island and it looks better for both her and 016 to just disappear.
The following morning after waking up, she is preparing for role call and duty assignment when she receives her food tray. She moves the bread and finds a key hidden underneath, making her stare at the surveillance camera inside her room as she then understands the Masked Officer followed on her request before drinking and starting her breakfast. She is then lined up with the rest of the soldiers as they announce the assignments. She and others are transported on an elevator downstairs where they are all assigned outer permitter patrol. Once outside, she tells Gyeong-seok to follow her.
They soon reach the dock where the boat is stationed at and they both board it. No-eul turns on the boat and steers away from the island. After minutes pass by, she is radioed by the Masked Officer to answer him, to which she explains she has nothing to say to him. He then counters with the fact their boat is too small and won't get them far in hopes she will turn around and come back, telling her it's not too late and if she turns him in, he will turn a blind eye to everything she's done. No-eul refuses, saying to stop searching for them and it's better for him to leave them alone. Only for him to reveal information who 016 really is and while he doesn't understand the connection between them, he has a good guess where his next destination is. He presses even more when revealing more details about the hospital and asks if she's reconsidering turning back around now. Shocked, No-eul doesn't give a response and begins to steer back where they came from.
Upon reaching the shoreline, she hops out the boat and tells Gyeong-seok to head north at full speed, once he reaches land to contact the police because his daughter is in danger. He immediately asks how does she know his daughter, with No-eul not answering him and urges him to go and get far away from the island before the fog lifts. Gyeong-seok begins to steer away and she heads back. She climbs up a cliff and enters a ventilator, leading to a room with a computer. She attempts to gain access but is nearly caught after the Masked Officer comes out of the restroom which forces her to hide until he leaves. She is unable to bypass without the credentials and resorts to holding the Masked Officer at gunpoint once he returns to the room. Once he does, he asks if she returned alone then reprimanding her that she should’ve brought Gyeong-seok back as well. The Masked Officer expresses his disappointment in her, to which she in turn argues that if he was truly knew her, he would’ve known she would never follow his order. He asks what does she want once again, she requests the files on Player 246 to be deleted from the database. Once her request was completed, she is about to kill the Masked Officer but he stops her by revealing they keep a physical copy as well. No-eul demands to know where, and he gives her the location. Except the only people with access to the top floor are the Front Man and himself. 
Once inside the elevator at gunpoint however, the Masked Officer immediately turns on No-eul and they fight, continuing even after they reach the Front Man’s office. He gains the upper hand when he leaves No-eul without her rifle and begins to strangle her, still wondering why is she defying him and telling her he knows based on the records, both her and Gyeong-seok worked together at Seoul Land before asking if No-eul has a crush on Gyeong-seok or something. She reveals that his daughter will die if her father does. He then begins to realize that No-eul did it  since the welfare of Na-yeon depended on it, then nitpicks at her if caring for another child makes No-eul feel better over abandoning her own. Weakened, she begs him to let those two go. The Masked Officer pulls out a pocket knife, saying while he understands to a certain extent, she crossed a line and she can’t go back now. She gathers enough strength to push back and attempts to stab him, yet it isn’t enough; he pushes her off him and they trade blows before he knocks the blade out of her hand and smashes a glass on her head. He expresses further disappointment in her, hoping there was a mutual understanding since they both defected North Korea and knowing what it was like to lose a loved one. He goes more in depth about his loss and stabs No-eul, wounding her deeply.
She starts to slide away as the Masked Officer is notified the final games are about to begin, then he verbally attacks her again; having regrets that he was wrong about her and further regrets not throwing her away in the games like the rest of the “trash,” then accusing that she chose herself over her daughter out of selfishness before preaching that she needs to stop worrying about someone else's child and worry about seeing hers in the afterlife. He promises that her death will be painless and grabs the bloodied knife, taunting her the closer she gets to the elevator. No-eul presses the button and he soon realizes she was after her rifle and while he attempts to stop her, she fires it; killing him instantly.
She looks around to gain access to the archives even though she is badly wounded. Once she does, she finds the folder on the 37th Squid Game which contains the data she was searching for on Player 246 along with the other players. She returns up to the office to grab a liquor bottle and a lighter then heads back down to burn the files along with the rest of the room. Just as she is about to leave, folders near the entrance catch her attention. Shortly deciding to dig through she soon discovers the files on the rest of the soldiers before seeing the one about her. 
As the room is burning, she reads what her file contains, revealing her part time job as a character performer. No-eul then spots a photograph of her husband and daughter in the file, just below that is a brief summary where she learns the harsh truth.
Her husband had been executed and her daughter was pronounced dead.
This shatters No-eul’s hopes that her child was still alive. She tearfully touches the photo one more time then leaves the file to burn along with the rest of the room.
She makes her way up to the office again, sitting on the couch watching Gi-hun and Jun-hee’s baby onscreen as her grief consumes her. She grabs the rifle off the arm of the couch and aims it below her chin, preparing to shoot herself when she hears the baby cry stopping her from pulling the trigger. No-eul witnesses as Gi-hun spends the remaining time holding the baby along with his ultimate act of sacrifice as he voluntarily falls to his death. It stirs something inside her, making her shed more tears and remove her finger from the trigger.
After the announcement to evacuate, she gathers herself to get up and leave. She puts on the square mask and leaves the corpse of the Masked Officer behind as the elevator doors shut. She is later seen inside a car aboard a large vessel before the island self destructs.
Six months later, she crosses paths with Gyeong-seok as a customer in Seoul Land. While drawing her portrait, he asks that if they met before or at least seen each other with No-eul denying that they haven’t. He apologizes if he came across as weird since it gave him a feeling they have. She reveals working not too long ago at the amusement park and he smiles as he knew he couldn’t shake that feeling of familiarity for some reason. A well recovering Na-yeon then walks up to her dad, chirping she and the bunny got a photo together. No-eul greets her, to which Na-yeon bows as she greets in return. Gyeong-seok immediately picks up on her recognition of his daughter and asks how does she know her. No-eul is almost taken by surprise, recovering with learning about Na-yeon's illness when she was still employed, commenting how Na-yeon is looking better. She then takes out a lollipop and gives it to her who thanks No-eul . She tells Na-yeon to continue being strong. Getting up from the chair, she bows and is about to leave when Gyeong-seok reminds her that the portrait isn’t done yet. It makes her hesitate and she simply answers she will come back later for it.
She is getting inside her van when she receives a call. Once she answers, the man on the other side reprimands her for changing her phone number. Confused, she asks who the caller is. It is revealed to be the broker helping her look for her daughter. Upon hearing this she stops driving. The broker continues with sudden news; while it hasn’t been confirmed, her daughter was suspected to have been spotted in China. This makes No-eul silent.
She is then last seen at the airport heading out to Yanji to see if her daughter has been found.

Kill count
Confirmed killsAttempted kills




Character

Information

Image/GIF


"Six Legs"North Korea


North Korean Pursuit Team

Mentioned by the Masked Officer during a conversation with her, wiped out and killed off to make her way to the Demarcation Line.

N/A


"Keys and Knives"North Korea


North Korean Commander

Shot in the head to escape North Korea.

https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/File:Commander.mp4


"001"Red Light, Green Light


Player 066

Shot in the nape with a Heckler & Koch PSG1.




Player 188

Shot in the heart with a Heckler & Koch PSG1.




Player 237

Shot in the head with a Heckler & Koch PSG1.




Kim Nam-du(Player 444)




"Six Legs"Six-Legged Pentathlon


Jang Do-yeong(Player 198)

Shot in the chest and head with a Heckler & Koch MP5




"Keys and Knives"Operating Room


Soldier 007

Shot repeatedly with a Heckler & Koch MP5.




Soldier 025

Shot in the leg and head with a Smith & Wesson Model 19.




Soldier 005

Shot in the head with a Smith & Wesson Model 19.




"The Starry Night"Operating Room


Kim Jung-ho(Soldier 016)

Shot in the head with a Smith & Wesson Model 19.




"⭘△☐"Host's Room


Masked Officer

Shot repeatedly with a Heckler & Koch MP5.







Character

Information

Image/GIF


"Humans Are..."Frontman's room


Herself

Attempted to commit suicide by shooting herself under the chin, thinking that Gi-hun would throw the baby off the circle tower and take all the money for himself.



Quotes

Season 2
 He lost, so I took him out.
Kang No-eul to Soldier 005 after killing a player he tried to preserve. 
Masked Officer: I told you not to interfere if you weren't going to assist us. I heard you shot the players who were still breathing so you could confirm the kills.Kang No-eul: I did the task that was given to me.Masked Officer: How long has it been… since we met each other?Kang No-eul: I can't recall at this point.Masked Officer: If I memory serves… it was right around seven years ago. The very first time I went to see you, you were lying in your bed in that dusty old hospital, just staring at the ceiling like a zombie. I couldn't believe you killed the team pursuing you with one rifle and got past the fences at the Demarcation Line without any kind of help at all. I saw you in that bed and felt sorry for you. So I decided to give you a chance to start over.Kang No-eul: I've always been grateful to you.Masked Officer: Then do what I tell you to.Kang No-eul: I do not wish to.
No-eul talking to the Masked Officer. 
Masked Officer: You're worried the boss is gonna find out? That shouldn't concern you. Last time and had a player do the surgeries in exchange for information about the games they were going to play. This time, we hired a doctor here ourselves. There's no way anyone's gonna find out about it, and even if they do—Kang No-eul: That's not my issue.Masked Officer: THEN WHAT IS IT, HUH?! When you met me, you said... you wanted to find the kid you'd left behind. Has something changed? Kang No-eul: When you first came to me, you said my job here would be helping those who feel hopeless by putting them out of their misery. I trusted you. That's what I came here to do. You're the one who has changed.Masked Officer: Either way, they'll end up dead. All we're doing is using their organs to help save others. What's wrong with that?Kang No-eul: If there are no further orders, I'd like to be dismissed.
No-eul arguing with the Masked Officer about his organ harvesting ring. 
Season 3
Close your eyes. If you want to live, do as I say.
Kang No-eul to Park Gyeong-seok after non-fatally shooting him. 
I gave it some thought. If they're just gonna die anyway, might as well give their organs to people who can still be saved.
No-eul lying to Solider 005 about her change in opinion. 
You and I are in the same boat now, aren't we? We don't want any secrets between us.
No-eul asking Soldier 005 to show her the "workroom." 
Save this man. If he dies, you do too.
No-eul to Soldier 016 about Gyeong-seok. 
Number 011 is here.
No-eul while holding the Masked Officer at gunpoint after he instructed his soldiers for her location. 
Masked Officer We're taking a few organs from trash that's going to die anyways. Why are you risking your life?Kang No-eul: You're the one taking that risk.
No-eul talking to the Masked Officer. 
Tomorrow, assign me and Number 016 to outer perimeter patrol. (…) And get us a boat. (…) I heard that the VIPs arrived. It'd be better for you if we disappeared quietly. Isn't that right?
No-eul asking the Officer to aid her escape. 
Drive north at full speed. As soon as you reach land, call the police. Your daughter is in danger.
No-eul instructing Gyeong-seok, heading back to the island to stop the Masked Officer from targeting Park Na-yeon. 
Kang No-eul: Was that everything?Masked Officer: Yes. Including the records on the main server.Kang No-eul: I'm afraid that… I will have to delete the ones in your brain as well.
No-eul forcing the Masked Officer to delete all records of Gyeong-seok. 
If Player 246 dies, then so will the kid.
No-eul begging the Masked Officer to let Gyeong-seok live. 
Don't get sick again.
No-eul to Na-yeon after seeing her in the park. 

Trivia
It's possible that No-eul has worked for the game in the past. From her conversation with the Masked Officer, he met No-eul seven years ago.
Unbeknownst to them, No-eul has come into contact with both Seong Gi-hun and Park Gyeong-seok whilst in the outside world.
No-eul is currently the only known female soldier, excluding VIP Jennifer who took the role temporarily.
No-eul has Type O blood, as mentioned when Kim Jung-ho asks about transplanting blood and that he has no spare blood.
Kang No-eul, Seong Gi-hun, Hwang In-ho, Lee Myung-gi, The Masked Officer, Kim Gi-min, and Park Gyeong-seok are the only characters that appeared in all six episodes of Season 3.
No-eul is one of the three known female characters who worked at Squid Game. Others are the Flower Seller and VIP Jennifer.
Kang-No-eul shares several similarities with Kang Sae-byeok, whether it be that both are North Korean defectors who were looking for a relative who failed to escape from North Korea and even their names are related (Sae-byeok which means dawn and No-eul which means sunset), probably these coincidences were only made to deceive the fans.
No-eul is the only one of the Sky Squid Game viewers who didn't know that Lee Myung-gi was the baby's father.
It's possible that No-eul appeared during Season 1, since she's been working for the games since 2019 (the Season 1 games occur in 2020), and some players during a few games (like Red Light, Green Light, Dalgona and Marbles) get shot directly in the head or the chest, which is something that No-eul is known for doing.
In the french dub, her name is mistakenly written as Kang Doo-wei. The reasoning for this is unknown.
No-eul was the only soldier who didn't directly interact with Hwang In-ho during the other two seasons.
Behind the scenes
Kang No-eul was portrayed by Park Gyu-young, her stunt double is Kim Cha-i and Choi Jun-seok during (Best Stunt), In the English dub, she is voiced by Kristina Ho. In the French dub, she was voiced by Audrey Sourdive.

Appearances
Season Two
"Halloween Party"
"001"
"Six Legs"
"One More Game"
"O X"
"Friend or Foe"
Season Three
"Keys and Knives"
"The Starry Night"
"It's Not Your Fault"
"222"
"⭘△☐"
"Humans Are..."
Gallery
Season 2
No-eul looking the policeman.Kang No-eul after removing the mascot bunny head, which she wore.The Resignation letter of No-eul.No-eul speaks with his boss for his resignation.Ditto.Ditto.Kang No-eul looking at Park Gyeong-seok running to his daughter.Kang No-eul at the hospital.Kang No-eul calling the number from the business card.No-eul putting on his mask before leaving his room.Ditto.Ditto.No-eul before she shot Player 188 during Red Light Green Light.No-eul after She shot Player 066 in the head.Ditto.No-eul speaks with Soldier 005 after she killed Nam-du.No-eul Recognize Park Gyeong-seok.No-eul in the sniper room After Red Light Green Light.No-eul  exits the sniper room after Red Light, Green Light.Ditto.Ditto.No-eul Sleeping In his room.No-eul meets up with the Masked Officier.No-eul Approaches the coffin Jang Do-yeong.No-eul ignores Jang Do-yeong's pleas and finishes him off.Kang No-eul before Mingle Game.No-eul takes herweapon before the Mingle game.No-eul  listening to the announcer.DItto.
Season 3
No-eul threatening Kim Jung-ho.Ditto.No-eul is looking for Gyeong-seok in the player list.No-eul preparing to burn down the Squid Game files about the players and staff.Kang No-eul's guard file.Kang No-eul's digital file.Kang No-eul's portrait from her File.Ditto, as a civilian.Kang No-eul with her family.No-eul, lying on the ground after losing the duel against Masked Officer.No-eul holding a weapon.Kang No-eul about to kill herself.Kang No-eul looking at Park Na-yeon.
Promotional
No-eul looking the business card promotional Season 2.Kang No-eul after removing the mascot Promotional Season 2.picture of No-eul with the squid game 2 Poster.No-eul remove on his mask Promotional image.Kang No-eul looking in the mirror.Kang No-eul in a Season 2 poster.No-eul's Netflix icon.Kang No-eul in the hospital.Ditto.Kang No-eul aiming her rifle at The Officer.Kang No-eul looking at the island.Kang No-eul shooting Number 005.Kang No-eul calling the number from the business card.No-eul and Number 005 descending the stairs.No-eul talks to The Officer before 2nd fight.
BTS/Stunt Double (Kim Cha-i)
No-eul's changing room in BTS.No-eul selfie in a BTS photo.No-eul in a BTS photo during the fight with Soldier 005 and Soldier 007.No-eul and Soldier 005 in BTS.Kang No-eul BTS looking at the island.No-eul's BTS Stunt Double portrayed by Kim Cha-i.Park Gyu-young with director Hwang.No-eul's and The Masked Officer's stunt doublesStunt recreation of her and the officer's fight.
Merchandise

References

↑ As of May 2025, under the international age system.

↑ Netflix (December 9, 2024). Squid Game Season 2 | World Premiere Event LIVE | Netflix. “See 37:41.”

↑ Koreaboo (December 6, 2024). Mysterious New “Squid Game 2” Character Reveal Launches Fan Theories.

Season Two37th Squid GameMain Characters
001
007
120
149
222
230
333
388
390
456
Major Characters
044
047
095
100
124
125
196
226
246
256
380
Supporting Characters
004
006
009
015
016
043
050
066
072
096
145
172
178
189
192
197
198
206
220
254
283
285
313
324
336
343
348
353
394
400
418
442
444
Minor Characters
031
039
045
067
080
084
135
140
165
185
188
199
202
203
209
216
237
238
239
249
257
260
263
270
286
306
308
328
331
350
355
371
384
395
401
415
416
435
448
453
454
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
Others
The Salesman
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Kang Eun-ji
Park Jung-bae
Ex-wifeM
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Chief Kim
Lee Ju-hong
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Mr. Kim
Choi Woo-seok
Lee Jang-uk
Hwang Jae-hun
Yun Jun-ho
Sea Captains
Sea Captain Park
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-wooN
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Hwang In-ho's wife
Kang Sae-byeokNP
Kang Sae-byeok's motherP
Kang Cheol
Park Mal-soon
Park Mi-yeong
Broker
Dentist
Season Three37th Squid GameMain Characters
007
120
124
125
149
222B
246PG
333
388
456
Major Characters
039
044
096
100
203
226
306
336
353
Supporting Characters
006
009
172
192
197
202
230H
232
235
260
349
377
380H
390C
394
400
411
418
442
447
Minor Characters
024
028
047C
048
080
084
105
119
134
145
154
163
191
209
241
276
296
310
312
334
344
350
359
435
440
443
448
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Kim Jung-ho
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
VIPs
Richard
Jennifer
John
Jack
Kevin
Others
Waiters
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Choi Woo-seok
Kim Mu-dong
Sea Captains
Park Yeong-gil
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Kang Sae-byeokH
Kang Sae-byeok's mother
Kang Cheol
Oh Il-namF
Park Man-cheol