Title: Keys and Knives (episode)
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Keys_and_Knives_(episode)
--------------------------------------------------
Season Three


Keys and Knives

The Starry Night

It's Not Your Fault

222

⭘△☐

Humans Are...

Why’d you let me live, and no one else? Why didn’t you kill me? Answer me! What’s it for, huh? You didn’t let anyone else live. Why?! Here, go ahead. Shoot. Go ahead, pull the trigger! Go on, do it! Kill me. Take the shot! Why did you let me live? Why? What else do you bastards want from me? Why didn’t you just kill me like everyone else? You won, didn't you? Go ahead, just take the fucking shot! You beat us! You won! So please, I'm begging you, just kill me!
Seong Gi-hun to the Front Man and the guards after the failed rebellion in "Keys and Knives"

Keys and Knives





							Title
							
						



							Episode
							
						






















Season
Episode
Overall




3
1
17





Episode Information

Duration
57 minutes


Air Date
June 27, 2025


Writer
Hwang Dong-hyuk


Director
Hwang Dong-hyuk




Episode Guide


Previous
Next




"Friend or Foe"
"The Starry Night"





Keys and Knives (열쇠와 칼 Yeolsoewa Kal?) is the 1st episode in Season 3 of the Netflix TV series Squid Game. It is the 17th episode of the series overall.

Contents

1 Synopsis
2 Plot
3 Cast

3.1 Starring
3.2 Recurring actors


4 Deaths
5 Trivia
6 References


Synopsis[]
"No-eul infiltrates a dangerous operation with a risky plan. A new game is announced: hide-and-seek, where one group holds a key and the other a knife." 

—Official Netflix synopsis
Plot[]
    Seconds away from passing out.  
A squad of pink soldiers enter the stairwell to execute the rebelling players. Kang No-eul takes on Park Gyeong-seok, shooting him non-fatally. She tells him to close his eyes if he wants to live. He complies. No-eul holds up the scanner towards his neck, leading the PA to declare him eliminated. She places his body in a coffin and marks it for organ harvesting.
Number 005 asks No-eul why she’s “playing nice all of a sudden”. She claims that she gave it some more thought and decided that, if they are going to die anyway, their organs might as well be given away to people who can be saved. She asks 005 to show her the operating room since they’re “in the same boat now”.

      
Another squadron of pink soldiers carry a coffin to the dormitory, before leaving. A group of X voters approach the coffin and open it to find Seong Gi-hun. Cho Hyun-ju checks for his pulse and sees that he’s alive. Together with Park Yong-sik and Jang Geum-ja, she gets him to a bed.
The mercenary team notices the disappearance of their drone pilot. Sea Captain Park suggests that he might have gotten drunk, come out to the deck to throw up and ended up falling overboard. Choi Woo-seok recounts how he had heard some thumping sounds the previous night and came out to check, finding Captain Park already on deck. Hwang Jun-ho suggests searching the vicinity, but Park says that the drone pilot’s body would have drifted a long way due to strong currents, and there’s no time to waste looking for a corpse. Mercenary Kim decides to head to the nearest dock and find another drone pilot.
Gi-hun begins to awaken, the memories of his rebellion plan and Park Jung-bae’s death rushing back to him. The squadron of pink soldiers return to the dorm. The pink manager announces that 35 players were eliminated the previous night, due to both the lights out attack from the O voters as well as the rebellion, bringing the current number of remaining players to 60. The total prize money is now 39.6 billion Won, meaning each player’s share comes upto 660 million. Kim Yeong-sam and a smiling Im Jeong-dae watch as more cash adds up to the piggy bank hanging from the ceiling.
Gi-hun approaches the soldiers and frustratedly asks them why they let him live in spite of killing the other rebelling players. He approaches one soldier and holds up their gun towards his own forehead, trying to pull the trigger, but finding that the safety is on. He yells, begging them to kill him since they won, asking them what else they want from him. The X voters watch in sadness and the O voters in amusement. The soldiers restrain Gi-hun and handcuff him to a bed. 
Hwang In-ho watches the proceedings from his room when he receives a call from Captain Park, who tells him that they have docked at the nearest port and are looking for another drone pilot before heading out again. In-ho says that they must not find the island until the games are over. Park asks what to do if things go south. In-ho says to kill them all, including Jun-ho.
Gi-hun is unable to vote due to his handcuffed state, leading the pink manager to consider his vote an abstention.
The Masked Officer lets the Front Man know that 8 managers and 27 soldiers were lost in the rebellion. The Front Man then tells him to replace the dead soldiers with workers as a promotion, and to repair any damage to the facility as quickly as possible, since the VIPs will be arriving soon.
As 005 takes No-eul to the operating room, he asks if she learnt to shoot because women in the North have to serve in the military too. She responds affirmatively. He asks her why she crossed the border, saying they should get to know each other since they’re “in the same boat” now. She asks him to come alone so that she may tell him everything later, as it is a long story. 005 claims to “know a spot” she would like.
The O voters have an embarrassingly large victory, due to the number of Xs that were lost in both the lights out and the rebellion. Jeong-dae taunts Gi-hun, thanking him for cutting down the number of Xs with his rebellion plan, and leading the other O voters in a round of applause.
Seon-nyeo approaches Gi-hun and taunts him with her shamanistic proclamations, saying that he was dragged here not of his own volition, but due to vengeful souls hovering over him - and that he’s going to hear the sound of all his dead friends screaming until the day he dies. She begins to laugh in his face, Gi-hun gets enraged, grabs the insufferable woman by the neck and starts to strangle her, Park Mi-hwa and Player 306 tell Gi-hun to let go of Seon-nyeo and they barely manage to separate them.
The pink soldiers at the operating room are revealed to keep their masks off so as to build trust and not keep secrets, as opposed to the 33rd edition of the games, when there was mutual distrust among the soldiers, leading to them getting caught. The doctor berates No-eul for how much money they have lost due to her constant sabotaging of their racket. He confirms that Gyeong-seok is alive, but unconscious.
No-eul shoots all the pink soldiers in the room. She approaches 005 and tells him her reason for crossing the border - she had a commander who was a lot like him, and then she shot him in the head. 005 scoffs, before being shot in the head by No-eul. She keeps the doctor alive and orders him to save Gyeong-seok.
The players are given sweet potatoes for their meal. Lee Myung-gi gives his potatoes to Kim Jun-hee, saying that he knows she likes them.
Geum-ja sees Gi-hun refusing to eat and tries to get him to. She tells him she knows he wanted to help them and save everyone. Hyun-ju apologizes to Gi-hun, saying she should have found a way to bring the spare ammo back from the dorms. Yong-sik says she has nothing to apologize for, and that it’s Kang Dae-ho’s fault, recounting to Gi-hun how he collected the ammo but froze and sank to the floor. 
Woo-seok offers to chat with Jun-ho in his cabin, telling him that he remembers seeing Captain Park holding a screwdriver the previous night, and that he has a gut feeling something is fishy with him. Jun-ho dismisses him, saying that Park saved his life and has been helping him search for the island for years.
The next morning, Dae-ho awakens in his bunk from the lights turning on and the warped morning alarm to blare from the damaged speakers from the rebellion to find Gi-hun staring at him piercingly. Nam-gyu continues to take drugs from Thanos’ cross necklace. As the players walk through the stairwell to the next game, they see the corpses of the rebelling players hung on display, with the PA announcing that this is the fate of those who refused to accept the results of the free and democratic voting process by attempting to forcibly put an end to the games through violent means, saying further irrational behaviour or attempts to violate the fair, just and clearly outlined rules of the games will be punished in accordance with their strict regulations. Dae-ho looks up at Jung-bae’s corpse nervously, while Gi-hun’s gaze is fixed on Dae-ho.
The players are taken to a room with a gumball machine containing red and blue balls. For the fourth game, the PA announces, the players will be divided into two teams and must step forward one at a time to draw a ball from the machine to decide their team.
Park Yong-sik, Im Jeong-dae, Seon-nyeo, Kim Jun-hee, Kang Dae-ho and Cho Hyun-ju is Hiders. Jang Geum-ja, Nam-gyu, Park Min-su, Lee Myung-gi, Kim Yeong-sam and Seong Gi-hun is Seekers.
Yong-sik is worried when him and Geum-ja are put on opposing teams, but she reassures him that they don’t know what the game is yet.
The doctor tells No-eul that Gyeong-seok’s major internal organs look good and that he was able to stitch him up, but he needs a transfusion to live. No-eul tells him to use her blood, but draws a pistol to his head to prevent him from trying anything.
The fourth game is announced to be Hide and Seek. The time limit is 30 minutes. Players on the blue team (hiders) must either find the exit and escape, or stay hidden and avoid being caught by players of the red team (seekers) until time is up. Seekers must kill the hiders once they find them. A seeker needs at least one kill within the 30 minutes to pass, otherwise they will be eliminated. The hiders are given keys to unlock doors in the arena, however once a door is opened, it cannot be locked again. When expressing concerns about killing with bare hands, the seekers are given knives. Nam-gyu tests a knife on his finger and exclaims in awe to find it works. 
The pink manager declares that seekers are not allowed to kill other seekers. Jeong-dae says the hiders should be given a shield instead of just running around without any defence. The seekers counter that they have it easy because of the keys.
The manager gives an opportunity before the game begins for players to find another player to switch sides, if they wish to.
The new drone pilot is welcomed aboard the ship. Jun-ho calls Woo-seok up, who tells him he will not be joining them as he has to look into Captain Park, because his gut feeling tends to be right. Woo-seok finds an old friend to accompany him on his ‘investigation’.
Seon-nyeo gathers more followers when she claims that the gods of heaven and earth can guide her way with their light.
Nam-gyu notices that Min-su is a seeker and asks him if he has ever killed anyone, telling him he might as well switch teams if he can’t do this. He adds that he looked for Min-su everywhere the previous night during lights out, but couldn’t find him, meaning that he’s pretty good at hiding. He starts to brag about how he sought out Se-mi and killed her for how she always treated him, saying she thought she was Wonder Woman and got what she was coming. 
From Min-su’s expression, however, Nam-gyu realizes that he watched it happen and didn’t do anything, taunting him with the fact that she liked him. As Min-su’s expression hardens, Nam-gyu tells him that he “loves the look in his eye” and that he should keep it when seeking people. He reminds him that their whole crew - Gyeong-su, Se-mi and Thanos - are dead and that it’s just the two of them, joking that he’ll be lonely if he loses Min-su as well, so he should “be a man” this game.
Myung-gi approaches Jun-hee and offers to switch teams, telling her to become a hider. She tells him to leave him alone, saying she doesn’t need his charity. Myung-gi says he knows she is not a killer, and to let him be the seeker instead so he can kill just one, then come find her and help her out for them and their child. Jun-hee refuses, saying she would do anything to keep her baby safe. Myung-gi tells her, in that case, to kill him and get out of there.
Yong-sik similarly tries to persuade Geum-ja to switch teams. She says she can just find another hider and switch with them so that they can both be together, but Yong-sik says that if they stick together and hide the whole time, they will be hunted down by the seekers. Geum-ja says she knows her son isn’t capable of killing anyone, never even throwing a punch when getting into fights as a kid. Yong-sik counters that she’s no different, reminding her that his father beat her all the time and she never fought back. Yong-sik says he will try to kill one for the sake of the game. Geum-ja accepts and becomes a hider, while Yong-sik becomes a seeker.
Jeong-dae gets scared to see that strong players like Player 192 joining the Seekers and looks for someone to switch teams with. Jeong-dae sees a Seeker with his head down and asks him if he wants to switch teams with him, but then the Seeker raises his head and reveals that he's Gi-hun, Jeong-dae realizes that he shouldn't mess with Gi-hun and leaves.
Dae-ho frantically tries to become a seeker after asking Player 349, but can’t find anyone willing to switch. He notices Gi-hun continuing to stare at him and frustratedly marches over to him, asking him what's his deal. He says that none of what happened was his fault, saying that they should have just tried attacking the Os during lights out and that they could have won the fight and the vote, saying that everybody is dead due to Gi-hun’s “ridiculous” rebellion plan. He aggressively tells Gi-hun that it’s his fault and that he’s the one who got them all killed, when a pink soldier points a gun at Dae-ho's head to prevent him from any physical violence.
Park asks what happened to Woo-seok, to which Jun-ho says he called him and said he had a family emergency. Park questions the sudden timing, saying he may have gotten scared and bolted, saying that guys like him who act tough and talk loudly are cowards in the end, and that it’s a good thing because “all he ever did was drown himself in booze”.
Yong-sik tells Geum-ja to find a good spot to hide. He’ll get his kill over with and find her to keep her safe. She says she’ll be okay, reminding him how often his father got drunk and threatened to kill her, but asking which one kicked the bucket first. She further reminds him of the blade concealed in her hairpin, telling him not to worry about her and to just focus on making it through, doing whatever it takes and whatever he needs to so they can leave the place together.
Jun-hee has a change of heart at the last minute, switching teams with Myung-gi so that she doesn’t have to stab him. She makes him swear on his life. He swears he will find her.
The hiders enters the maze-like arena with a starry night sky-themed ceiling. Among them are: Hyun-ju, Dae-ho, Jun-hee, Geum-ja, Jeong-dae and Seon-nyeo. The PA announces that they have two minutes until the seekers enter the arena. Jeong-dae yells that they should all spread out and look for the exit - not just hide. If someone finds a way out, they should shout it out so they can all come to them. A child’s voice fills the PA, singing a traditional hide-and-seek chant “Hide, hide, it’s time to play”. Hyun-ju offers to stick together with Geum-ja and Jun-hee.
Nam-gyu approaches Myung-gi and offers to team up with him for the game, expressing admiration at the way he stabbed Thanos with the fork in the bathroom. Myung-gi accepts. The seekers enter the arena. Among them are: Yong-sik, Min-su, Myung-gi, Nam-gyu and Gi-hun. Then Gi-hun stands up, says "It's all your fault." and with his knife in hand, sets out to hunt down and kill Dae-ho.

Cast[]
Starring[]
Lee Jung-jae as Seong Gi-hun (Player 456)
Lee Byung-hun as The Front Man/Hwang In-ho
Wi Ha-joon as Hwang Jun-ho
Yim Si-wan as Lee Myung-gi (Player 333)
Kang Ha-neul as Kang Dae-ho (Player 388)
Park Sung-hoon as Cho Hyun-ju (Player 120)
Park Gyu-young as Kang No-eul (Guard 011)
Yang Dong-geun as Park Yong-sik (Player 007)
Kang Ae-shim as Jang Geum-ja (Player 149)
Jo Yu-ri as Kim Jun-hee (Player 222)
Roh Jae-won as Nam-gyu (Player 124)
Lee David as Park Min-su (Player 125)
Lee Jin-wook as Park Gyeong-seok (Player 246)
Song Young-chang as Im Jeong-dae (Player 100)
Recurring actors[]
Chae Kook-hee as Seon-nyeo (Player 044)
Lee Sung-woo as Kim Yeong-sam (Player 226)
Choi Gwi-hwa as Kim Gi-min (Player 203)
Park Jin-woo as Lee Seung-won (Player 336)
Lee Kyu-hoi as Kim Yun-tae (Player 353)
Woo Jung-kook as Player 039
Jo Si-nae as Park Mi-hwa (Player 006)
Kang Yi-eun as Player 009
Jo Seong-jun as Player 024
Ryu Jeong as Player 028
Kim Byeong-gi as Player 048
Jang Dae-hyun as Player 080
Park Jae-hong as Player 084
Kim Ji-hyun as Player 105
Song Yoo-jin as Player 119
Shin Sae-am as Player 134
Kim Sang-heon as Player 154
Han Tae-eun as Player 163
Jin Yong-wook as Player 172
Jun Jong-woo as Player 191
Jang Tae-min as Player 192
Do Ye-joon as Player 197
Park Tae-san as Player 202
Lee Won-chul as Player 209
Kim Hee-sang as Player 232
Park Jae-chul as Player 235
Cha Chun-ho as Player 241
David Kim as Player 260
Kim-Choi Yong-joon as Player 276
Woo Kang-min as Player 296
Lee Kyung-min as Player 306
Yu Ji-hye as Player 310
Kim Dae-heung as Player 312
Yoo Nam-jeong as Player 334
Jin Yeong-rak as Player 344
Kim Geum-sun as Player 349
Lee Byeong-hyun as Player 350
Seo Je-il as Player 359
Shin Hee-chul as Player 377
Oh Tae-eun as Player 394
Nam Ji-hyun as Player 400
Han Sang-chul as Player 411
Lee Sang-jin as Player 418
Park Jong-young as Player 435
Kim Young-mi as Player 440
Seo Ho-chul as Player 442
Lee Bong-ha as Player 443
Choi Young-rok as Player 447
Lee Ji-yu as Player 448
Oh Dal-su as Captain Park
Jeon Seok-ho as Choi Woo-seok
Sung Do-hyun as Mercenary Team Leader Kim
Deaths[]
Soldier 007 (Shot in the leg and then in the head by Kang No-eul)
Number 025 (Shot in leg and head with revolver by Kang No-eul)
Number 005 (Shot in head by Kang No-eul)
Trivia[]
Red Light, Green Light, Bread and Lottery and this episode are the only episodes that follow the "X and Y" format (Red Light [and], Green Light, Bread and Lottery, Key and Knife).
Coincidentally, these episodes are also the first episode of their respective seasons.
Despite of its title and synopsis, this episode only features the team formation of the Hide and Seek, and not the gameplay.
Nam-gyu mentioned Thanos, Gyeong-su & Se-mi in this episode.
The day before Season 3 released, Netflix leaked the first 5 minutes for the Keys and Knives episode as well as other clips in the trailers.
Number 007 is the first death of this episode and the season.
This is the only episode to have only guards die in it.
References[]
Squid GameSeason 1
Red Light, Green Light
Hell
The Man with the Umbrella
Stick to the Team
A Fair World
Gganbu
VIPS
Front Man
One Lucky Day
Season 2
Bread and Lottery
Halloween Party
001
Six Legs
One More Game
O X
Friend or Foe
Season 3
Keys and Knives
The Starry Night
It's Not Your Fault
222
⭘△☐
Humans Are...