Title: Kim Gi-Min
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Kim_Gi-Min
--------------------------------------------------
Kim Gi-min





							Finalist
							
						



							Player
							
						



















Name
Kim Gi-min


Aliases
Player 203 (37th Squid Game)The trash (by Hwang In-ho and Im Jeong-dae)


Relationships
AlliesIm Jeong-dae †  (leader and friend, brief enemy in Jump Rope)Lee Seung-won † (best friend, ally since Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 296 † (friend)Kim Yeong-sam †Player 192 †Player 202 †Player 276 †Player 418 †Player 442 †Nam-gyu †Player 241 † (before Special Game)Kim Yun-tae † (ally after Jump Rope, brief enemy)NeutralPlayer 238 † (teammate during the Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 206 † (teammate during the Six-Legged Pentathlon)Player 172 † (situational enemy; victim)Park Yong-sik † (situational protected in Hide and Seek)EnemiesSeong Gi-hun † (archenemy, saviour, attempted victim and killer)Kim Jun-hee's baby (archnemesis, attempted victim)Player 145 † (teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon; enemy after Mingle)Player 096 † (former ally, attempted indirect killer)Player 039 † (former ally, attempted victim; indirect victim)Lee Myung-gi † (former ally)Player 094 † (victim)Player 349 † (victim)Kwon Byeong-su † (attempted killer)Park Min-su † (attempted victim)


Affiliation
Squid Games37th Squid GameTeam OIm Jeong-dae's teamHis teamSeekers


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
November 7, 2024[1]Sky Squid Game


Cause of death
Stabbed in the heart with Il-nam's dagger by Seong Gi-hun during a struggle.



Physical Description

Gender
Male


Eye color
Black


Hair color
Black



Appearances

Portrayed by
Choi Gwi-hwaLim Tae-hoon (stunt double)An unknown extra





First appearance
Last appearance




"001" (icon)
"Humans Are..." (corpse)







Voting




Round 1
Round 2
Round 3















Round 3 Tie
Round 4
Round 5













Look, I don't talk as much as you. But that lump you're holding... say it gets out of here alive. What the hell is it supposed to even do? Its mother's dead. And I'm pretty sure Dad's out of the picture. So who's gonna take care of that little baby? Use your brain. It's got no chance of making it. Can't you see that?
Gi-min trying to convince Seong Gi-hun to give up Kim Jun-hee's baby in "⭘△☐"

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 202
Player 204







Kim Gi-min (김기민 Gim Gi-min?), also known as Player 203, was a participant in the 37th Squid Game as well as one of the finalists of the competition. He was a physically imposing man who was a steadfast member of Team O. During the final game, he and his allies attempted to kill Seong Gi-hun and Kim Jun-hee's baby.

Contents

1 Personality
2 History

2.1 Fate


3 Kill count
4 Quotes
5 Trivia

5.1 Mistakes


6 Behind the scenes
7 Appearances
8 Gallery

8.1 Season 2
8.2 Season 3
8.3 Behind the scenes


9 References


Personality
What're you staring at?! I just did you all a favor.
Gi-min to the other players after killing Player 349 in "222"
Gi-min, like most members of Team O, is a greedy, psychotic, and violent man, crossing the line to win as much money as possible. During the Special Game, he violently stabbed Player 094 to death, showing his true and sadistic nature. It is unknown how psychotic he was prior to Mingle, but after each game, Gi-min turned more psychotic, sneaky, aggressive, self-centred, short-tempered, brutal, manipulative, heartless, vain and mentally unstable. Gi-min's debt is unknown but, he never appeared to consider voting X, regardless of how large the prize money was, the money never seemed to be enough for him. In Hide and Seek, he violently murdered Player 172, in Jump Rope, he kicked Player 349 from the platform for more money, and in Sky Squid Game, he was willing to kill Kim Jun-hee's baby and Seong Gi-hun. He was unconcerned with his allies' safety and shown to be reckless and impatient, pressing the button for the second round before the others even gave him the okay. He just told the others to push them both off even though this meant they would have to sacrifice his team members next round showing how Gi-min was willing to sacrifice his own allies to win and earn more money. He also participated in the violent beating of Player 039, even personally breaking his leg, and agreed with the proposal to throw him off the circle pillar after he and his allies were running out of options.
Despite his sadistic attitude, Gi-min can get nervous when the situation is against him, such as when Kwon Byeong-su was about to shoot him and the other Os, when he saw Jump Rope [despite his derogatory attitude towards some of his own team-mates and all of the Xs, Yun-tae and 039 actually went on the bridge before him as did the following Xs: Player 084, Player 124/Nam-gyu, Player 209, Player 349 and Player 377 as well as Seong Gi-hun who voted X three times previously] or when Gi-hun and Myung-gi took the lead in Sky Squid Game. He also prefers to attack players when they are distracted, like when he hesitated to attack Park Min-su directly for fear that Min-su would grab him and take him out.

History
Kim Gi-min got into debt through unknown means at some point in his life, before he was encountered by The Recruiter and played Ddakji, where he received a card and decided to join the Squid Games. He then managed to survive Red Light, Green Light. In the first round of voting, he voted to continue the games. 
During Six-Legged Pentathlon, he teamed up with Lee Seung-won, Player 145, Player 206 and Player 238. They managed to complete all their minigames and completed the game. In the second round of voting, he again votes to continue the games. However, unlike Im Jeong-dae and the others, he is not seen trying to convince anyone to vote O. 
It is unknown who he teamed up with in Mingle, though he survived and managed to move on. In the third round of voting, he voted to continue the games. 

After the third voting, when the players of both "O" and "X" factions started to argue, he is seen with the "O" team, throwing his jacket to the ground in anger to show his tonic body and intimidate the X's, and arguing with Dae-ho. Gi-min can be seen looking up when the announcement of the eliminated players in the bathroom fight was revealed. When Im Jeong-dae yelled for a roll call, Gi-min also shouted at other O's to get to the line so they can all be counted. When it is revealed that the O's lost more players than the X's, Gi-min can be seen walking towards a bed, angrily looking at the X's, implying the O’s intentions for that night.Yeah! Let's go! Get down here so we can count you! Come on!
 In the Special Game, he attacks the X players during the Special game and killed Player 094 during it. He is also seen with hands in the air along with Lee Seung-won, Player 096, Player 296 and Player 442 when Kwon Byeong-su tries to shoot them. During the re-voting, he decides to continue the games and is happy when Player 448 unwillingly votes to continue the games. After the vote is over, he laughs at Seong Gi-hun along with his team. It was unknown that he saw Seon-nyeo getting strangled by Gi-hun for mocking his dead friends, shocking the rest of Team O.
In Hide and Seek, he was part of the Red Team. He mocked the blue team and during the team swap process he with Lee Seung-won practiced with knives. During Hide And Seek, Player 172 is discovered by Park Yong-sik. With an injured arm, Player 172 begged Yong-sik not to kill him, mentioning his mother who has cancer. As Yong-sik decided to spare him, Player 172 attacked him and grabbed his knife. Just as 172 was about to kill Yong-sik, Gi-min entered the room and stabbed Player 172 in the back and neck, killing him and saving Yong-sik. Yong-sik stared at the body for a few moments, and thanked Gi-min before the latter ran off. In the fifth round of voting, he again votes to continue the games. 

     "Oh yeah? Go right ahead, buddy."  
In Jump Rope, he was one of the few people who were not nervous of entering the game. When Gi-hun managed to carry a baby to the finish line in a short amount of time, He along with Im Jeong-dae, and other players cheered for Gi-hun. Gi-min can be seen nearly falling off the bridge in the fifth game when Player 096 was stalling the bridge. After Player 377 fell off due to an argument with him and Player 349, Gi-min quickly ran to Player 349 and kicked her off, causing everyone to be in shock. When others looked at him in fear, he reminded them that they would get more money this way. He then survives the fifth game, with his legs barely able to move.  

Fuck that! What kind of bullshit is this?! That little slut is dead. Since she died back there, her share should be ours! What's that baby done to deserve it?! Huh?!
Kim Gi-min complaining to the managers that the baby shouldn't be considered a player in the games in "222"
When eight players returned to the dormitory, the guard announced there were actually nine present. The group were confused, insisting there were only eight, until Jun-hee’s child was counted as Player 222, bringing the total to nine. This caused Lee Seung-won to be enraged, as he stated that the eight of them had to go through deadly games to advance, while a baby could just join in. The loss of 640 million won due to the baby’s inclusion led everyone to attempt to kill the child. Later the guards who stopped the situation from escalating congratulated them for being finalists and give each of them a suit. For the dinner Gi-min voted O as he requested more rice and did not object. He teams up with Im Jeong-dae and the other O's to survive the next game

In the final game, Sky Squid Game, he alongside the rest of Team O tried to kill Jun-hee's baby but Seong Gi-hun wasn't letting them. He agreed with Lee Myung-gi to change the target to Park Min-su, leading to the latter's death In the first round. Afterwards, Lee Seung-won attempted to attack Gi-hun together with his team, but was overpowered, his makeshift harness being sawed off with the dagger provided to Gi-hun by Hwang In-ho the previous night. Gi-hun threatens Seung-won that if he doesn't surrender now, he will be pushed off. Gi-min can be seen on the floor with Im Jeong-dae, Kim Yun-tae and Player 039 staring at Gi-hun and Seung-won's stance. Myung-gi then yells at Gi-hun to move out of the way before pushing Lee Seung-won to his death with the metal pole, taking Gi-min and the others by surprise at Myung-gi's betrayal.Yeah, I like voting. Nice and fair. I say we do that, huh?
Kim Gi-min agreeing with Kim Yun-tae's decision about voting ⭘△☐ in "⭘△☐"You're in or you're out, man. Otherwise, fuck off.
Kim Gi-min to Player 039 after the Final Dinner in "222"
Fate
When Myung-gi revealed he was the baby's father, and showed that he was teaming up with Gi-hun against the O voters now and remarking that now the two of them can choose whom to eliminate. With them being cornered and their plea to draw lots denied, Team O chose to betray Player 039 and use him as a sacrifice, which Gi-hun refused to go by, demanding that they draw lots now. Kim Gi-min was immediately filled with rage by Gi-hun's flip-flopping, and launched an attack on Seong Gi-hun, while Kim Yun-tae went for Myung-gi. After Yun-tae was kicked off the platform by Myung-gi, Kim Gi-min can be seen pinning Gi-hun down, yelling, screaming and nearly killing him. Gi-hun managed to stab Kim Gi-min in a lethal area with the dagger that he received from Hwang In-ho and pulled Gi-min to the ground, killing him. He placed 6th throughout the competition.

Kill count
Confirmed killsAttempted killsIndirect kills


Character

Information

Image/GIF


"Friend or Foe"Special Game


Player 094

Stabbed to death via repeated blows to the neck with a fork.




"The Starry Night"Hide and Seek


Player 172

Stabbed in the back and then neck with a hunting knife in order to pass the game; situationally saving Park Yong-sik in the process.




"222"Jump Rope


Player 349

Kicked her off of the Jump Rope's starting platform.





Character

Information

Image/GIF


"222"Dormitory


Kim Jun-hee's baby(Player 222)

Planned and attempted to kill the child after hearing that she became a player; disrupted by a gunshot from the Pink Guards.




"⭘△☐"Sky Squid Game


Player 039

Attempted to use him as a lunchbox to survive the circle pillar alongside Im Jeong-dae and Kim Yun-tae. Disrupted by Seong Gi-hun threatening him with his dagger out of dismay.




Seong Gi-hun(Player 456)

Attempted to stab to death after temporarily grabbing Il-nam's dagger from Gi-hun.





Character

Information

Image/GIF


"⭘△☐"Sky Squid Game


Player 039

Indirectly caused by beating him to near-death, leading him to voluntarily jump off. Also broke his leg, which severely ruined his chances of winning or making it out alive; shared kill with Im Jeong-dae and Kim Yun-tae.

 

Quotes
What about them?
Kim Gi-min to Im Jeong-dae and Kim Yeong-sam in Friend or Foe Those keys open doors remember?! You people can actually get outta here.
Kim Gi-min explaining the game mechanics to the Hiders before the Hide and Seek game in Keys and Knives Oh yeah? Go right ahead, buddy. 'Cause if not, you should shut the fuck up.
Kim Gi-min telling Im Jeong-dae go first in Jump Rope during It's Not Your Fault What do you mean there’s still 9 players? There’s only 8.
Kim Gi-min confused about the player count in "222" Damn right! The kid has to go. It should die right now!
Kim Gi-min as he is about to kill the baby after hearing that she is now a player in "222"
Hey, you! 456, give me the kid. Hand the little fucker over. Give it to me or I’ll kill you too!
Kim Gi-min aggressively demanding the baby from Gi-hun in "222"Ah, shit. Just speak like a goddamn human. What are we really doing?
Kim Gi-min asking the Manager about the final game during the Final Dinner in "222"Fuck. Who gives a shit anymore. Come on, guys. If he won't drop the kid, let's just push 'em both.
Kim Gi-min telling his team after pushing the button in Sky Squid Game in "⭘△☐"I'm fucking tired of talking, talking, TALKING! I can tell he's bluffing, that asshole! If we actually try to to push him off for real, he'll fold, and give up the kid. I'm telling ya!
Kim Gi-min complaining to his team about killing Seong Gi-hun and Kim Jun-hee's baby in ○△□ Oh, forget it! Why are you waiting? Push 'em both off the edge! 
Gi-min to Kim Yun-tae to push off Gi-hun and Jun-hee's baby off the platform. in "⭘△☐"Holy shit, come on, are you for real?
Kim Gi-min in disbelief after Gi-hun asks to draw lots instead of killing the Lunchbox, I'm an idiot? Son of a bitch, you want me to push you instead?!
Kim Gi-min to Kim Yun-tae during the second round of Sky Squid Game  in "⭘△☐"
Trivia
Some speculated that Gi-min would have a more prominent role in Season 3, due to him being seen killing several players during the Special Game and the player's name being shown in the credits. Furthermore, the actor posted on his Instagram page that 'the real game starts in Season 3'. Something else that supported this is that Choi Gwi-hwa is a well known and well liked actor in Korea, so to have him play a background character would be a weird choice. The speculations turned out correct.
Gi-min was the third and final player that Gi-hun killed directly in Season 3.
Gi-min was the only player who did not die by falling off the platforms in Sky Squid Game, as his body can be seen flat on the triangle platform.
This also makes him the last player to die from a method other than falling.
From Season 2 to 3, Gi-min went from being a minor character with only 2 vocal lines to being a major character reaching the finals, finishing 6th in the whole competition.
Gi-min's hairstyle had not changed throughout Season 2 and 3. However, ever since 222, his front hair is split during the Jump Rope game.
In fact, you can actually see the moment when his hairstyle changes, as he changes it while Player 349 tells Player 377 to turn around, and after watching Player 192 and Player 442 fall to their deaths.[2]
He is the last player to be killed directly by Gi-hun and the only player to die by the knife gifted to Gi-hun by Hwang In-ho.
The Front Man gave Gi-hun the knife so he could "kill the trash" coming after him and the baby. Gi-min is the only finalist Gi-hun kills the with the knife, highlighting his repulsive nature along with many other members of Team O.
Gi-hun also indirectly avenged any X player Gi-min killed in The Special Game, Player 172 and Player 349.
When the finalists are doing rock paper scissors, every time Gi-min did scissors, he used his thumb and index finger, instead of index middle, making his scissors look more like a gun, reflecting his extremely violent nature.
Given just how sadistic he is and how he knew how to use a knife, it's very likely he murdered somebody on the outside or was even a murderer or gangster member like Deok-su.
Additionally, Jang Deok-su killed Player 271, while Kim Gi-min killed Player 172. Interestingly, the numbers of both players killed have the same digits but in reverse order.
Kim Gi-min is very possibly the most evil player we have ever seen in Squid game. He brutally stabs Player 094 to death with a fork, Cartoonishly kicked Player 349 off the Jump Rope bridge with a giant smile on his face for fun, was completely willing to murder Kim-Jun-hee's baby with his bare hands and found the Lunchbox idea hilarious. Also of the group of five players who approached Gi-hun to demand the death of the baby Gi-min was the only one smiling as well as the one with his hand held out meaning he would have been the one to kill the infant girl himself and would have enjoyed doing so.
Kim Gi-min was responsible for two of the four confirmed unwilling O voters deaths showing unwillingly voting O didn't make a difference to Gi-min or Team O.
Technically, he has gotten a kill in every game after Mingle.
He was the first seeker to enter the maze. Unlike all the other seekers, he didn’t wait for the game to officially start and simply wandered off.
Gi-min is the final player in the 200's range to be eliminated from the 37th Squid Game.
Gi-min has a pattern of not waiting for things. He didn't wait for the, 'ready or not? Here I come!' before starting his hunt in Hide and Seek, and in the final two votes, his number is not called, rather, he just walks up, he didn't even want to wait in the second round of the Sky Squid Game for his group to finish convincing Gi-hun that the baby had to die.
He is the tallest finalist and second tallest player after Hide and Seek (after Player 084, being by a single centre meter).
Kim Gi-min had the habit of attacking people while they were completely distracted or off guard, as seen with 094, 172, and 349 despite being seen as the most intimidating and strongest player on Team O.
He killed three people in three separate occasions. Player 094 in the Special Game, Player 172 in Hide and Seek, and Player 349 in Jump Rope. It is also possible though not confirmed he may have taken out one or two more X voters in the Special Game and even one of the two unaccounted for Hiders in Hide and Seek.
This means by definition, Kim Gi-min is a serial killer. He also tried to kill the baby directly as well as cause the death of Player 039 meaning he intended at least five deaths.
Since Gi-min placed 6th in the competition, his 33rd Squid Game and 28th Squid Game counterparts was Jang Deok-su and Player ???.
Coincidentally, 2 of the most evil Squid Game players were placed 6th.
Similar to Heo Sung-tae, both actor play evil characters but are super kind in real life.
He is the only minor finalist seen without a jacket.
Although it is not confirmed, it is most likely that he was the player who came up with the lights out attack in the 37th squid game, this is because he is seen whispering to Im Jeong-dae after the headcount and then looking at the X team menacingly.
Kim Gi-min and Im Jeong-dae are the the only finalists of the 37th Squid Game who never considered voting X.
Of his three victims, Player 172 was the only one he actually needed to kill to survive, while Players 094 and 349 were killed out of pure cruelty. Gi-min seemed to have extreme adrenaline rush after killing 172, however given his complete sadism it's likely he felt absolutely no guilt.
Gi-min was the only player who was happy and smiled when it turned out that the blue team member had to be killed to complete the game, while the other players were either upset or serious.
In the fifth game, Jump Rope he encourages Im Jeong-dae to be the one to go first in the Jump Rope bridge when Jeong-dae said ''someone has to step up and go first'': in Sky Squid Game Jeong-dae gets him back by advising him to push Park Min-su off of the tower when Gi-min complains no one is willing to approach Min-su.
Some of his mannerisms are reminiscent of Gwi-nam from All of Us Are Dead would be like, including his hairstyle, height and extremely violent personality. His actor, Gwi-hwa, also has part of the same name as Gwi-nam.
In the Hide and Seek game famously only 7 Hiders passed while only 18 Taggers passed. This means that in five cases a Tagger made a ''bonus kill'' by taking out a blue even after they had already passed the game: we see three of these with Player 333/Lee Myung-gi/MC Coin making bonus kills with Player 447 and Player 120 while Nam-gyu/Player 124 makes a bonus kill with Player 006/Park Mi-hwa: this leaves two unknown cases. It is possible that Myung-gi and Nam-gyu made the other two bonus kills but also possible [and somewhat more likely] that other Taggers had the same idea and managed a bonus kill. The two most likely candidates would be Player 096 who was fast and intelligent, had military marine training, was the second player to actually pass the Hide and Seek game proving he was very capable at it and technically had the same idea in the Jump Rope game by wanting as many player as possible dead for the prize money: along with Player 203/Kim Gi-min who was extremely ruthless and violent, physically capable as shown when he casually took out Player 094, Player 172 and Player 349, passed the Hide and Seek game fairly early and had a special disregard for the lives of the other players [as shown when he is the most enthusiastic for the deaths of the other players in Sky Squid Game]. Also if you look closely at his expression after killing Player 172 he does not look relaxed upon hearing he has passed the game and his expression is still quite aggresive which may mean he is planning to take out even more blues to increase the prize money and also because he just likes killing.
He has some resemblance to mercenary Kim  in height and hairstyle: they also have similiarity in neither of them being at all majorly affected by death and killing [though of course there is a moral difference on the base level between the two]. It is possible Gi-min could be a former mercenary as well as his personality would suit it and even slightly possible he knew mercenary Kim.
It is surprising it took him so long to pass the Hide and Seek game as his personality is extremely well suited to it but it it possible he is not the fastest runner and this caused him to have some trouble catching up with the Blue Hiders.
Mistakes
Another 203 is seen during the Six-Legged Pentathlon.
When the island is about to explode and Sky Squid Game is shown, both Gi-min's corpse and the coats of the other finalists are not seen on the Triangle Tower.
Behind the scenes
Kim Gi-min was portrayed by Choi Gwi-hwa, who is renowned for his appearances in Train to Busan, A Taxi Driver, and The Outlaws. On his final day on set, Gwi-hwa is given a round of applause by the staff, and he says that it was no big deal, showing his humble nature despite his character's attitude. He was also portrayed an unknown extra in Six-Legged Pentathlon and Lim Tae-hoon as a stunt double.

Appearances
Season Two
"001" (icon)
"Six Legs" (error)
"O X"
"Friend or Foe"
Season Three
"Keys and Knives"
"The Starry Night"
"It's Not Your Fault"
"222"
"⭘△☐"
"Humans Are..." (corpse)
Gallery
Season 2
Gi-min's icon.Another Player 203 cheering after Hyun-ju's team crosses the finish line.Another Player 203 during Six-legged Pentathlon seen in BTS.Ditto. (behind the other Player 206).Gi-min waiting to vote in BTS.Gi-min waiting to vote in BTS footage.Gi-min voting O.Ditto.Gi-min after voting.Gi-min watching as Yong-sik walks up to vote.Gi-min looking back at Hwang In-ho as he's about to vote.Gi-min after the third vote concludes.Gi-min listening to Yong-sik.Ditto,Ditto.Gi-min staring at Team X.Gi-min getting up.Gi-min taking his jacket off.Gi-min walking towards the X'sGi-min throwing his jacket to the ground.Gi-min listening to the bathroom eliminations.Ditto, close up.Gi-min watching the piggy bank drop from the ceiling.Gi-min looking at Jeong-dae after he finishes counting.Gi-min looking over at Team X.Gi-min and the rest of Team O are planning a to attack.Gi-min staring at Dae-ho.Gi-Min is coming down the stairs with a broken bottle, preparing to attack Team X.Gi-min walking over the O side during the Special Game.Ditto but in a Promotional image.Gi-min getting prepared to attack the X Players.Gi-min charging at the X players in Special Game.Gi-min stabbing Player 094 in the chest.Ditto, bts.Gi-min as the Pink Guards enter the dormitory after Special Game.Gi-min coming out from his hiding spot.Gi-min, Player 296, Player 096, Lee Seung-won and Player 442 after the Special Game.Gi-min as Byeong-su threatens to kill them.Gi-min deciding not to join the Rebellion.Gi-min listening to the gunshots.Gi-min watching as Dae-ho returns for ammunition.Gi-min after the Special Game.
Season 3
Gi-min as the Guards enter the dorms after the Rebellion.Gi-min walking up to Gi-hun's coffin.Gi-min talking to Player 296 after Gi-hun wakes up.Gi-min looking up at the Piggy bank.Ditto.Gi-min looking at Gi-hun as he is called to revote.Gi-min after the voting concludes.Gi-min walking.Gi-m squatting and leaning towards Gi-hun.Gi-min grinning.Gi-min cheering at Gi-hun after Team O wins the vote.Gi-min looking at the corpses strung up in the stairwell after the rebellion.Gi-min before Seon-nyeo gets her blue ball.Gi-min looking back at Gi-hun getting his ball.Gi-min asking the Manager if the Seekers' role is similar to the actual gameGi-min looking back at Kim Yeong-sam.Gi-min giving a tutorial to Lee Seung-won on how to efficiently stab someone.Gi-min thrusting his knife.Gi-min stabbing thin air.Seung-won copying Gi-min.Gi-min entering the Hide and Seek maze.Gi-min moments before he attacks Player 172.Gi-min brutally killing Player 172.Gi-min inside looking up at the intercom after killing Player 172.Gi-min looking at the money after completing the forth game.Gi-min entering the Jump Rope arena.Gi-min telling Im Jeong-dae that he should go first.Gi-min watching Player 096 push other players off.Gi-min watching as Player 442 and Player 192 fall to their deaths.Gi-min pushing his hair back.Him trying to look passed the players in order to figure out a way to cross.Kim Gi-min pushing his hair back in frustration again realizing it will be hard to complete the game with Player 096 blocking the way.Gi-min about to kick Player 349 off the platform.Gi-min kicking Player 349 to her death.Gi-min after kicking Player 349 off.Ditto.Gi-min looking back at other players' reactions.Gi-min signaling Yun-tae and Player 039 to go forward.Kim Gi-min entering the dormitory after Jump Rope.Ditto.Gi-min resting after Jump Rope.Gi-min looking at the piggy bank.Gi-min confused at the mention of 9 players.Kim Gi-min looking at his number as the manager calls it.Gi-min standing up from his bed in anger.Gi-min says that the baby's money should be theirs and they should kill her.Ditto.Gi-min going to kill the baby.Gi-min telling Gi-hun to hand over the baby.Ditto.Gi-min looking at Gi-hun after he was not allowed to kill the baby.Gi-min disappointed because he can't kill the baby.Gi-min before sitting down.Gi-min as a finalist.Gi-min can't wait to start eating dinner.Gi-min eating the finalist dinner.Gi-min during the clarification of the rules for the final game.Gi-min trying to comprehend the rules of the final game.Gi-min looking at Gi-hun and the baby.Gi-min looking over at Min-su.Gi-min joking that he has an objection to the baby's vote.Kim Gi-min finishing his rice before voting.Ditto.Gi-min thinking what to vote.Gi-min voting O for the last time.Ditto, but gif.Gi-min celebrating with Jeong-dae during dinner.Gi-min and his team selecting targets during the final game.Ditto.Gi-min pressuring Player 039 into joining the pact.Gi-min heading to the final game.Gi-min looking at the towers.Gi-min entering the elevator within the square tower.Ditto.Gi-min looking up.Gi-min listening to the rules of Sky Squid Game.Ditto.Gi-min and Jeong-dae silently agreeing.Ditto.Gi-min looking at Gi-hun.Gi-min fixing his hair.Gi-min and his team discussing why the baby must die.Gi-min applauds Yun-tae's 'democratic' vote.Gi-min voting to eliminate Player 222.Gi-min listening to Yun-tae's arguments.Gi-min saying that the baby has no future.Ditto.Gi-min pointing towards Gi-hun and the baby.Ditto.Ditto.Gi-min looking at Gi-hun and the baby.Gi-min understanding that they can't kill more than one person per pillar for their plan to work.Ditto.Gi-min listening to Jeong-dae.Gi-min agreeing to eliminate Min-su before Jun-hee's daughter.Gi-min seen eyeing Min-su through VIP binoculars.Gi-min closing in on Min-su.Ditto.Gi-min watching as Yun-tae explains to Min-su why he must be eliminated.Gi-min yelling to push Min-su.Gi-min confirming with Jeong-dae that he should be the one to eliminate Min-su.Gi-min preparing to push off Min-su.Gi-min haulting.Gi-min explains that Min-su may try to grab him off and accuses his team of trying to set him up.Gi-min hesitating.Gi-min watching as Myung-gi steps forward with the pole.Ditto.Gi-min watching as Myung-gi shoves Min-su.Gi-min complimenting Myung-gi.Gi-min seeing the bridge appear from the square tower.Gi-min watching as the bridge connects to the triangle tower.Gi-min crossing the bridge to the triangle tower.Gi-min waiting for Gi-hun and the baby to cross the bridge.Gi-min watching Jeong-dae explain why they don't feel good about eliminating Jun-hee's daughterGi-min watching Yun-tae take out the pole.Gi-min planning to push the button.Gi-min after pushing the button.Gi-min explaining to Yun-tae he doesn't care whether Gi-hun disagrees anymore, and that Yun-tae should eliminate them both.Gi-min scheming behind Yun-tae's back explaining his plan to Player 039 and Seung-won.Gi-min annoyed when the others misunderstand his plan.Gi-min notices Yun-tae hesitating to kill Gi-hun and Jun-hee's daughter.Gi-min yelling at Yun-tae to follow through and kill them already.Gi-min grinning, waiting to see the deaths of Gi-hun and Jun-hee's daughter.Gi-min asking Yun-tae why he retreated.Gi-min attempting to take the pole to do it himself.Gi-min arguing with Yun-tae.Gi-min fighting with Yun-tae over the pole before being broken up by the rest of the team.Gi-min furiously explains that he's tired of talking.Gi-min explaining Gi-hun will give up the baby eventually if they really threaten to push him off.Gi-min upset over Yun-tae's defiance.Gi-min awaiting to hear Myung-gi's idea.Gi-min choosing rock in Rock Paper Scissors.Gi-min choosing paper in Rock Paper Scissors.Gi-min choosing scissors in the shape of a gun in Rock Paper Scissors.Gi-min after successfully winning Rock Paper Scissors.Gi-min reacting to Seung-won lose to Jeong-dae in the last round of Rock Paper Scissors.Gi-min taking off his jacket and reminding the rest of the plan.Gi-min being pulled back after the jackets rip.Gi-min brutally beating up Player 039 to the point of near death.Gi-min kicking Player 039 in the nose.Gi-min breaking Player 039's leg.Gi-min smiling after beating Player 039.Gi-min trying to persuade Gi-hun.Ditto.Gi-min not understanding why Gi-Hun doesn't support the lunchbox idea.Gi-min attacking Gi-hun.Gi-min being stabbed by Gi-hun.Gi-min's corpse.
Behind the scenes
Gi-min Sitting on the bleachers after receiving food before Lights Out “BTS”Kim Gi-min's stunt double getting pushed to his death.Kim Gi-min during the argument in BTS footage.
References

↑ During the 37th Squid Game, which began on November 1, a day was skipped when the players tied the vote after Mingle, with Jump Rope occurring on November 6, and the final game happening on November 7.

↑ Season 3, Episode 4. 2:08

Season Two37th Squid GameMain Characters
001
007
120
149
222
230
333
388
390
456
Major Characters
044
047
095
100
124
125
196
226
246
256
380
Supporting Characters
004
006
009
015
016
043
050
066
072
096
145
172
178
189
192
197
198
206
220
254
283
285
313
324
336
343
348
353
394
400
418
442
444
Minor Characters
031
039
045
067
080
084
135
140
165
185
188
199
202
203
209
216
237
238
239
249
257
260
263
270
286
306
308
328
331
350
355
371
384
395
401
415
416
435
448
453
454
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
Others
The Salesman
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Kang Eun-ji
Park Jung-bae
Ex-wifeM
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Chief Kim
Lee Ju-hong
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Mr. Kim
Choi Woo-seok
Lee Jang-uk
Hwang Jae-hun
Yun Jun-ho
Sea Captains
Sea Captain Park
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-wooN
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Hwang In-ho's wife
Kang Sae-byeokNP
Kang Sae-byeok's motherP
Kang Cheol
Park Mal-soon
Park Mi-yeong
Broker
Dentist
Season Three37th Squid GameMain Characters
007
120
124
125
149
222B
246PG
333
388
456
Major Characters
039
044
096
100
203
226
306
336
353
Supporting Characters
006
009
172
192
197
202
230H
232
235
260
349
377
380H
390C
394
400
411
418
442
447
Minor Characters
024
028
047C
048
080
084
105
119
134
145
154
163
191
209
241
276
296
310
312
334
344
350
359
435
440
443
448
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Kim Jung-ho
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
VIPs
Richard
Jennifer
John
Jack
Kevin
Others
Waiters
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Choi Woo-seok
Kim Mu-dong
Sea Captains
Park Yeong-gil
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Kang Sae-byeokH
Kang Sae-byeok's mother
Kang Cheol
Oh Il-namF
Park Man-cheol