Title: Kim Young-mi
URL: https://squid-game.fandom.com/wiki/Kim_Young-mi
--------------------------------------------------
This article is about the character. For the actress, see here


Kim Young-mi






Name
Kim Young-mi


Aliases
Player 095 (37th Squid Game)


Relationships
Allies Cho Hyun-ju † (best friend, older sister figure, teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Jang Geum-ja † (friend, teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Park Yong-sik † (friend, teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Park Gyeong-seok (savior)NeutralSeon-nyeo † (teammate in Six-Legged Pentathlon)Seong Gi-hun † (situational ally, indirect avenger)Park Jung-bae † (situational ally)Kang Dae-ho † (situational ally)Oh Young-il (situational ally)Kim Jun-hee † (situational ally)Player 249 † (indirect killer; unknowingly)Player 051 †Player 073 †Player 015 †Lee Myung-gi † (indirect and situational killer)


Affiliation
Squid Games37th Squid GameTeam XTeam 4Seong Gi-hun's team (allies)


Fate

Status
Deceased


Died
November 3, 2024[1]Mingle


Cause of death
Shot in the back by a soldier for not entering a room because Lee Myung-gi closed the door and after being knocked down by Player 249 in Round 4.



Physical Description

Gender
Female


Eye color
Brown


Hair color
Brown



Appearances

Portrayed by
Kim Si-eun





First appearance
Last appearance




"001" (icon) "Six Legs" (first physical appearance)
"O X"







Voting




Round 1
Round 2












It's alright, Hyun-ju. As long as we work together, I'm sure we can win this one, get out, and have that dinner.
Kim Young-mi to Cho Hyun-ju in "One More Game"

Chronology





Previous player
Next player




Player 094
Player 096







Kim Young-mi (김영미 Gim Yeong-mi?), also known as Player 095, was a participant in the 37th Squid Game.

Contents

1 Personality
2 History

2.1 Fate


3 Attempted kills
4 Trivia
5 Behind the scenes
6 Appearances
7 Gallery

7.1 Season 2
7.2 Behind the scenes


8 References


Personality
Excuse me. I was wondering... would you like to do this together?
Young-mi's asking Cho Hyun-ju to team up with her in "Six Legs"
Young-mi is a very anxious and emotional person. She sees her “unnie” as her dearest friend who helps in finding her confidence. She’s reliant on her team- particularly Hyun-ju, and is loyal to them. She tries her best to keep going during the games and is hopeful that everyone will survive. She is described as "very brave" from Hyun-ju when they first encountered each other. Although prone to panicking and stressing, she sticks with her team. As said by Park Sung-hoon, he said that Young-mi was "like a wet Shih Tzu", and that she looks like a puppy and she's really cute.

History
Young-mi was in a giant debt and decided to join the Squid Games for a chance to win a huge cash prize by playing Ddakji with The Recruiter. After failing the ddakji and constantly getting slapped, she finally managed to beat The Salesman and got ₩100,000 and a recruiting card that reads ○△□ and a phone number on the other side. After that, she called the number on the recruiting card, and got into a mysterious car. She then woke up in a giant dormitory with 454 other players. After that, she stayed on her bed watched as many other players debts were revealed in front of her. Later on, she signed a contract and made her way up a flight of stairs to the first game off-screen.
During the first game, she was soon terrified as players were shot in front of her offscreen during the mass panic. She was able to control herself and stand still. She then eventually completed the first game, Red Light, Green Light thanks to Gi-hun's commands and strategy off-screen. After returning to the dormitory, many players pleaded the guards to let them go. However, after a massive increase in the prize pool was revealed, many people changed their minds. As the guards decided to have the first vote, Kim Young-mi doesn't care about the money and voted X which resulted into the Os winning the vote.
She makes her first appearance in the 4th episode when she pairs up with Cho Hyun-ju in the second game. Her team also consisted of: Park Yong-sik, Jang Geum-ja and Seon-nyeo. Prior to their round, she began panicking, but Hyun-ju reassured her. Her game to play was Ddakji, which she succeeded in on her 4th attempt after her friend's help. She and her team managed to pass the game in the last second.
After the challenge she has a talk with her friends from the team except Seon-nyeo, where they discuss their lives. She refers to Hyun-ju as 'Unnie', a Korean honorific term meaning 'older sister' or a way to address a woman older than you. As the voting process begins, Jang Geum-ja invites her for dinner after the game is over before they discover how closely they live to each other. Young-mi asks Hyun-ju if she will join them, noticing her friends silence, to which she agrees. In the second voting she proceeds to vote "X" once again. After seeing how many people want to stay, she breaks downs crying, pleading for everyone to let her go home. When majority decided to stay, she is upset, but forgives Hyun-ju for voting "O". Hyun-ju explains how she was ostracized after her decision to transition, and how she needs the money to finish it and move to Thailand. After Yong-sik mentions Thai trans women, and Hyun-ju refers to them as beautiful, Young-mi calls her beautiful too, causing Hyun-ju to break down.
After the night they proceed to the 3rd game. Whilst walking there, Hyun-ju stops Young-mi to apologize for voting "O", Young-mi reassures her that it is okay, and they will leave after the next round.
In the game Mingle, the first round is 'ten' and her team joins with Gi-hun's team of five, grabbing Seon-nyeo for their final player. When round two is revealed to be 'four', the four of them quickly abandon Seon-nyeo for a room, only for her to survive and become their enemy. The third round is 'three' so Young-mi and Hyun-ju split into a pair to find their final member, they are saved at the last second by Park Gyeong-seok who pulls them into a room. Young-mi refers to him as a 'Knight in shining armor' for saving them, a notion Geum-ja agrees with and thanks him for saving them both.

Fate
Unnie...
Young-mi's last words to Cho Hyun-ju in "O X"
     Kim Young-mi's dead body  
In the fourth and penultimate round, the players are told to form groups of six. Her team of four are joined by Kang Dae-ho and Kim Jun-hee, but as they run towards a room, Young-mi is pushed by Player 051 while he and Player 073 are pushed by Player 249 and Young-mi falls to the ground, Hyun-ju tries to save her but Lee Myung-gi pushes her inside and closes the door before time runs out, leaving Young-mi outside but saving the group by joining them.
Young-mi starts to cry and looks at her Hyun -ju through the hole in the door. She repeatedly calls out for Hyun-ju, using the word ‘Unnie’. Hyun-ju tries to open the door without success, then Young-mi is shot in the back and dies, leaving her friends and Hyun-ju especially devastated, Hyun-ju blames Myung-gi for Young-mi's death but Myung-gi defends himself, saying that it's not his fault and that thanks to him she is alive, Hyun-ju declares in anger and grief that it is because of Myung-gi that Young-mi is dead, but Myung-gi responds that there was no time and that Hyun-ju would have died when she left the room and the group would have died because they were missing a player. Myung-gi asserts that everyone is alive thanks to him and asks the group if he is telling the truth and Jun-hee and Dae-ho reluctantly say that he is right and that there was no time. Hyun-ju is left devastated and heartbroken over the loss of her friend.
Young-mi's dead body is put in a box to be either incinerated or her body was used by The Masked Officer for his organ trafficking business and her death affects the members of her team, especially Hyun-ju, who becomes despondent and votes "X" after the round because of her. Seon-nyeo gloats about her death and threatens the rest of her allies, saying they are next. Because of her irrational behavior, Geum-ja told Hyun-ju, Yong-sik, and Gyeong-seok to be free from her curse, so that they won't meet their fates.

Attempted kills


Character

Information

Image/GIF


"O X"Mingle


Seon-nyeo(Player 044)

Indirectly attempted by abandoning her during the 2nd Round of Mingle; alongside Yong-sik, Hyun-ju and Geum-ja.



Trivia
She has the same number as Lightning McQueen, the main character in Cars.
Kim Young-mi shares a name with the actress of Player 440 in Season Two and Three.
Young-mi's death may have been foreshadowed before being eliminated. In Mingle after the end of the second round, Hyun-ju's team was stared at evilly by Seon-nyeo, in which Young-mi was the main one. This may confirm that Seon-nyeo knew her fate, or cursed her before being eliminated.
In “One More Game” Young-mi reveals that she lives in Sillim-dong.
Young-mi was often mistaken for Jun-hee by fans, and before Season 2 aired, many people thought the girl outside the door was Jun-hee.
Player 238 seems to have the same hairstyle as her.
She's the only one in her team to not have any direct, attempted or caused kills.
Young-mi's actor Kim Si-eun and Geum-ja's actor Kang Ae-shim, both starred in the drama Move to Heaven. She and Park Yong-sik are the only main characters from the 37th Squid Game to die via being shot.
Coincidentally they're both from Hyun-ju's team.
Behind the scenes
Kim Young-mi was portrayed by Kim Si-eun. In the French dub, she was voiced by Estelle Darazi.

Appearances
Season Two
"001" (icon)
"Six Legs"
"One More Game"
"O X"
Gallery
Season 2
Kim Young-mi's icon.Kim Young-mi's icon during the mass panic.Young-mi’s icon after RLGL.Young-mi seen from afar.Young-mi's first appearance.Young-mi looks at Cho Hyun-ju.Young-mi gets ignored by Hyun-ju.Kim Young-mi asking Cho Hyun-ju.Young-mi and Cho Hyun-ju meets Park Yong-sik and Jang Geum-ja.Ditto from a better view.Young-mi as Seon-nyeo confronts the team.Close up.Young-mi looks at Seon-nyeo.Young-mi sitting with her team.Ditto.Young-mi as Team 1 and Team 2 is gunned down.Young-mi and her team gets ready to play.Closer look.Ditto, but more better view.Young-mi becoming friends with Cho Hyun-ju.Young-mi approaching Cho Hyun-ju.Kim Young-mi stares at Seon-nyeo praying.Young-mi and her team about to play the six-legged pentathlon games.Kim Young-mi before picking the ddakji.Young-mi picking up her Ddakji.Young-mi stressing before throwing the ddakji.Young-mi after failing the Ddakji.Kim Young-mi curling up her hair.Young-mi retrying the ddakji.Ditto.Young-mi on her second attempt.Kim Young-mi on the third attempt.Young-mi after failing the ddakji 3 times.Kim Young-mi as Seon-nyeo tells her to pick up.Ditto.Young-mi as Cho Hyun-ju tells her to flip the ddakji.Young-mi before flipping the ddakji.Young-mi flips the ddakji.Kim Young-mi after flipping then ddakji.Kim Young-mi before she completes ddakji.Kim Young-mi on her fourth attempt.Young-mi completes ddakji.Young-mi as she completes ddakji.Kim Young-Mi as Park Yong-sik completes Biseokchigi.Kim Young-mi watches Jang Geum-ja play Gonggi.Young-mi before Geum-ja completes Gonggi.Young-mi after Geum-ja completes Gonggi.Kim Young-mi watches Seon-nyeo play Paengi.Young-mi as Seon-nyeo completes Paengi.Ditto.Young-mi as Hyun-ju tells her to look away.Young-mi counts to 1.Kim Young-mi as Cho Hyun-ju completes Jegi.Young-mi and her team about to cross the finish line.Young-mi and her team crosses the finish line.Young-mi looking at Jung-bae.Ditto.Young-mi asks Hyun-ju a question.Young-mi gazing at Hyun-ju.Ditto.Kim Young-mi as the piggy bank drops.Young-mi and her group talks about eating dinner outside the games.Ditto, but chuckles.Young-mi having a conversation with Geum-ja.Young-mi after Park Mi-hwa votes X.Young-mi and Hyun-ju before voting in the 2nd round.Young-mi voting to end the games.Ditto.Ditto from another angle.Young-mi after Hyun-ju voted O.Ditto, but closer up.Young-mi as tears drop from her eyes.Young-mi crying heavily because she wants to leave the games.Ditto.Ditto again.Young-mi continue to cry as Team X will never win the vote.Ditto.Young-mi  looking at the crowds in Team O.Young-mi after the second voting.Ditto, but closer up.Young-mi disappointed at Hyun-juYoung-mi walking up the stairs before Cho Hyun-ju apologizes.Young-mi stops as Cho Hyun-ju confronts her.Ditto from different angle.Kim Young-mi forgives Cho Hyun-ju.Ditto, but smiles.Ditto, but chuckles.Young-mi with her group in Mingle.Closer up.Young-mi chatting with her team if the number is 2 or 4.Ditto.Young-mi as she knew that she can survive Mingle.Ditto, but a better view.Young-mi on the Mingle platform before Round 1.Young-mi in the first round of Mingle.Young-mi looks at Seon-nyeo talking to Seong Gi-hun.Hyun-ju and Young-mi holding hands.Young-mi and her team before leaving Seon-nyeo behind.Young-mi in the second round of Mingle.Young-mi and her team exiting the room after Round 2 of Mingle.Ditto.Ditto closer up.Young-mi after Seon-nyeo stares at her after round 2 of Mingle.Young-mi's icon before round 3 of Mingle.Young-mi's icon after round 3 of Mingle.Young-mi running towards Jang Geum-ja.Young-mi hugs Jang Geum-ja with Cho Huyn-ju after Round 3 of Mingle.Young-mi with Gyeng-seok.Young-mi looks at Park Gyeng-seok.Young-mi telling Geum-ja how Gyeong-seok rescued her and Hyun-ju.Young-mi as Jang Geum-ja thanked Park Gyeng-seok.Ditto.Young-mi looks at Park Yong-sik.Young-mi on the platform before round 4 of Mingle.Young-mi as Im Jeong-dae's team shut the door on her group.Young-mi running to a unoccupied room along with her group.Young-mi before she is pushed by Player 051 and 073.Young-mi before she falls to the floor.Young-mi pushed by Players 051 and 073 from Player 249.Young-mi gets up after she gets pushed.Ditto as a gif.Young-mi peeking through the door and looking at Hyun-ju, moments before she was shot.Young-mi is shot by a Soldier.Young-mi’s death.Young-mi's corpse.
Behind the scenes
Won Ji-an, Se-mi's actress, with Kim Si-eun, Kim Young-mi's actress.Player 095 with mingle teamWith Park Yong-sikDitto.Kim Young-mi on the Mingle platform in a BTS photo.Kim Young-mi and Kim Jun-hee posing together.Young-mi in Mingle BTS.Kim Young-mi in the Six-Legged Pentathlon BTS as Park Yong-sik is about to throw the stone.Young-mi on round 2 of mingle in a bts scene.Ditto.
References

↑ The 37th Squid Game began directly after Seong Gi-hun met with the Front Man on October 31, with Mingle occurring on November 3.

Season Two37th Squid GameMain Characters
001
007
120
149
222
230
333
388
390
456
Major Characters
044
047
095
100
124
125
196
226
246
256
380
Supporting Characters
004
006
009
015
016
043
050
066
072
096
145
172
178
189
192
197
198
206
220
254
283
285
313
324
336
343
348
353
394
400
418
442
444
Minor Characters
031
039
045
067
080
084
135
140
165
185
188
199
202
203
209
216
237
238
239
249
257
260
263
270
286
306
308
328
331
350
355
371
384
395
401
415
416
435
448
453
454
StaffGuards
Managers
Soldiers
Kang No-eul
Number 005
Number 007
Number 025
Workers
Leadership
Front Man
Masked Officer
Others
The Salesman
Young-hee
Cheol-su
Announcer
CiviliansRelativesSeong Gi-hun
Seong Ga-yeong
Kang Eun-ji
Park Jung-bae
Ex-wifeM
Park Gyeong-seok
Park Na-yeon
Law Enforcement
Hwang Jun-ho
Chief Kim
Lee Ju-hong
Mercenaries
Kim
Drone pilot
Criminals
Sunshine Capital
Mr. Kim
Choi Woo-seok
Lee Jang-uk
Hwang Jae-hun
Yun Jun-ho
Sea Captains
Sea Captain Park
Sea Captain Ko
Others
Cho Sang-wooN
Cho Sang-woo's mother
Hwang In-ho's wife
Kang Sae-byeokNP
Kang Sae-byeok's motherP
Kang Cheol
Park Mal-soon
Park Mi-yeong
Broker
Dentist