Title: A Sumo Wrestler's Tail
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/A_Sumo_Wrestler%27s_Tail
--------------------------------------------------
A Sumo Wrestler's Tail






Kanji
ねずみのすもう or ねずみの相撲


Rōmaji
Nezumi no Sumō


Directed by
Akihiko Yamashita


Produced by
Toshio Suzuki


Written by
Hayao Miyazaki


Based on
"Nezumi no Sumō"


Starring
Sawako Agawa


Music by
Manto Watanobe


Art Directed by
Noboru Yoshida


Studio
Studio Ghibli


Production
Tamami YamamotoYasuyoshi Tokuma


Release date(s)
January 3, 2002 (Limited release in Ghibli Museum only)


Running time
14 minutes


A Sumo Wrestler's Tail (ねずみのすもう or ねずみの相撲 , Chû-zumô or Nezumi no Sumō) is a 13-minute short film written by Hayao Miyazaki and directed by Akihiko Yamashita. It was released on 2010 and is one of the twelve short films screened exclusively for the Ghibli Museum in Mitaka, Tokyo and Cinema Orion in Ghibli Park. 
It is an adaption of a folktale called Nezumi no Sumō. Miyazaki, who understood this was a well-adapted tale, first asked, "Can you make a fun animated film from a traditional Japanese tale?" Director Yamashita declared, “For this film, I worked on the central theme of this work: to show characters showing their will, while remaining funny. I also wanted to express the idea that having a goal gives you strength." The film also pays tribute to Japanese culinary art, a running theme in many Ghibli films.
The music was composed by percussionist Manto Watanobe, member of the group Shan Shan Taifu, and had previously worked on Isao Takahata's feature film, Pom Poko (1994) and Ghiblies Episode 2 (2002). 

Contents

1 Synopsis
2 Behind the Scenes

2.1 Inspiration
2.2 Production

2.2.1 Animation
2.2.2 Background Design




3 Release
4 Credits
5 Gallery
6 References
7 External links
8 Navigation


Synopsis[]
     The sumo wrestling mice enjoy a spot of dumplings before they fight once again.  Once upon a time, an old man named Jil and his wife Baa lived on a mountain. One night, the old man found a bunch of mice heading off to somewhere. Thinking this is mysterious, the old man follows the chant through the thicket until he comes to the middle of the woods, where - in the middle of a clearing - a sumo ring has been set up. In this ring, a slender mouse and a much larger white mouse are locked in a sumo match. 
The old man, fascinated, watches the match intently, and he suddenly realises that the slender mouse is one which lives in his house, while the fatter mouse lives in the house of a local rich man. He cheers the slender mouse on, but due to its weakness and small stature it is quickly flung out of the ring by the larger mouse, much to the man's dismay.
Returning home after the match, Jil tearfully tells his wife Baa of the sumo match, lamenting the fact that he has no delicious food to offer to the mouse in order to build its strength. His wife, touched by the story, decides that the two together would take the rice they had saved and make some rice cakes and miso dengaku for the mouse. They leave the rice cakes on a shelf for the mouse to find, and come morning find they have been taken. The old couple are satisfied by this, confident that the rice cakes and miso dengaku will have added to the mouse's power. Eventually, the slender mice win against the larger mouse in an exciting climatic fight.

Behind the Scenes[]
Inspiration[]
     Studio Ghibli staff conducted a research trip to Shimoguri and sampled their cuisine.  In 2008, following the completion of Ponyo on the Cliff by the Sea, producer Toshio Suzuki said that Hayao Miyazaki's next projects after the movie  would be short films for the Ghibli Museum. 
Miyazaki was inspired by Japanese folk tales, and desired to depict them so as to gain a deeper understanding of them. He lamented, "Koganei, where Studio Ghibli is located, and Tokorozawa, where I live, were wild lands of Musashino that developed during the Edo period. Even if I look at old photos and old houses of peasants still standing, I cannot find the landscapes of tales. There are no landscapes with houses with thatched roofs."
"I came across a book written by anthropologist Tsuneichi Miyamoto (1907-1981). Miyamoto carefully traveled and observed all over Japan. He thought a lot and listened to a lot of people. He left a number of good books.
In one of Miyamoto's writings, there is a passage about the eating habits of a mountain village without rice fields. Since there are no rice fields, the inhabitants of the village cannot make rice and make mochi. He wondered, "I wondered how could these people feed themselves?" Miyazaki goes on to describe what these villagers actually ate, "These locals make tofu from soybeans. They also make miso themselves. They add nuts to the miso which they crush with a pestle. They then add either dried persimmon or sugar, which is precious, and which they bought in small quantities in the village." He then describes that salted fish so as to avoid rotting, and then said that salt was a precious and rare commodity.
"So I thought to myself that making a short film based on the tale Sumo of the Mice and taking place in a small mountain village like Shimoguri would be very interesting. How can the salty sanma meatballs I have heard about taste? Maybe the mice will love its scent? And if they bite into it, maybe they'll be happy and gain strength? Perhaps their strength will be greater than with mochi (glutinous rice preparation) and maybe they will eventually win the sumo tournament? This is how our version of Sumo Mice was born."
Miyazaki and a small team of staff members went on a scouting trip to the remote village of Shimoguri to observe daily life and take inspiration from the area. They ate dumplings, which he described as "fragrant and delicious."

Production[]
Animation[]
     Akihiko Yamashita at a press junket. A Sumo Wrestler's Tail is his first directorial work.  Hayao Miyazaki had already indicated at the time that making a story about sumo mice would be interesting to do. While Miyazaki would be handling the storyboards, he entrusted directing duties to Akihiko Yamashita, whose credits include Giant Robo, Howl's Moving Castle, The Secret World of Arrietty and When Marnie Was There.[1]
The name Chû-zumô (with chû" being in Japanese the onomatopoeia to describe the squealing of the mouse), is inspired by the traditional Japanese folktale Nezumi no Sumō. Director Yamashita said, “For this film, I worked on the central theme of this work: to show characters showing their will, while remaining funny. I also wanted to express the idea that having a goal gives you strength. Nonetheless, the purpose of this film was clearly to show all the mice, even the losers, laughing and declaring that it was a good tournament. I moved forward on this project thinking about all this. But it was not that simple."
Yamashita was given some advice in his direction, "At first, I worked out this scene with mice approaching haphazardly, attracted to food. But, director Hayao Miyazaki corrected me, telling me that I needed to change my perspective on mice. They should be seen as obedient soldiers. So I animated the mice like disciplined soldiers."

     The act of cooking rice cakes and miso dengaku was captured very well in the film.  The research trip helped a lot in capturing the authenticity in the film, "I learned a lot of things with the making of this film, like the diversification of the lifestyles of the time thanks to the book by Tsuneichi Miyamoto. By spotting in the village of Shimoguri, I knew fields on the mountainside, and when I ate dumplings at the Sanma , I heard the sound "saku" (onomatopoeia describing a crunchy noise) and discovered their flavor."
He also learned a few things while taking the role of director, "What is important is the rhythm, to bring interest scene after scene. This is what I felt." When referring to the storyboards, "...there is no need to draw superfluous scenes." He spent three months finalizing the storyboards based on Miyazaki's initial work. He also mentions being more fluid when directing the animation of characters, "As for the animation of the characters, I am aware that I put my personal touch to it. I did not always draw the characters while respecting the model boards. The faces and bodies stretch and squash from one scene to another and give impossible movements. It is therefore a fun realization and specific to animation."

Background Design[]
     The filmmakers strove to capture the landscapes of Shimoguri.  Naoya Tanaka was in charge of the backgrounds and landscapes, and he too said the research trip helped, which was under the recommendation of Hayao Miyazaki. He said, "I also observed the old houses that were moved to Kodaira Furusato Mura (Tôkyô)." 
He recounts his experience, "So I started by studying all of this. In Shimoguri, I was surprised by the fields on the mountainside, like Jii and Baa's that we see at the start of the film. I actually visited these fields and asked a couple who grow potatoes to tell me about their lives. They explained to me that since the side is very sharp, if you drop a potato, it immediately rolls down the mountain. It is an anecdote that marked me a lot."
Tanaka was in charge of drawing Jil and Baa's home, "For the kitchen scene, I detailed the preparation of a big meal, in which Jii and Baa put all their strength throughout the day, around a fire crackling in the fireplace in the dark room. main."

     Jii and Baa at home.  He was meticulous in the film's interiors, "For Jii and Baa's house, the important thing was to put authenticity, as if you could almost smell the smell of embers that you see in the decor. But arriving at this authenticity was not easy. For example, in these old houses there was always a toilet outside. And I imagine it smelled bad all the time. The house itself was not very clean. And for sleeping, the inhabitants used straw futons, filled with moths and lice. Describing all of this was not in our interest. Our interest is to give all this to be felt in our decorations thanks to our locations. In fact, it was trial and error all the time."
The film was completed and released on January 3, 2010.

Release[]
     Director Akihiko Yamashita posing with elementary students and parents during the premiere event at the Ghibli Museum.  As part of the film's promotional activities, Akira Hisashi along with his fellow Arashio-beya Sumo wrestlers, were invited at Ghibli Museum to preside over a children's sumo tournament.[2]
Meanwhile, Asahi covered the premiere event at Ghibli Museum, describing the film in a humorous way. "The highlight is that when the (old man) saw his mice losing in a slapstick fashion in sumo, he stood up and silently made savory dumplings and miso dengaku." Miyazaki described it as, "I want you to think of these mice as samurai who know etiquette." 
Elementary school students attended the museum event, and director Akihiko Yamashita held a question and answer portion for his small viewers. When describing the climactic fight, "I wanted to attempt a flashy comedic movie like Tom and Jerry."[3]

Credits[]


Credit

Staff


Screenplay
Hayao Miyazaki


Director
Akihiko Yamashita


Art Director
Naoya Tanaka


Color Design
Michiyo Yasuda


Producer
Toshio Suzuki


Music
Manto Watanobe


Production
Studio Ghibli

Gallery[]
ChuuZumou pamphlet 3.jpg
References[]


↑ http://www.buta-connection.net/index.php/musee/courts-metrages-du-cinema-saturne/les-souris-sumo

↑ Dosukoi at the Ghibli Museum""Dosukoi at the Ghibli Museum: Tokyo 23 Wards: Region: YOMIURI ONLINE (Yomiuri Shimbun) Archived January 10, 2010

↑ https://www.asahi.com/showbiz/column/animagedon/TKY201001100094.html


External links[]
 A Sumo Wrestler's Tail on Anime News Network
 A Sumo Wrestler's Tail at the Internet Movie Database  
Nezumi no Sumō on Wikipedia
Navigation[]






 V • T • E    Credits





Credits




Founders

Hayao Miyazaki (Director) •  Isao Takahata (Director) •  Toshio Suzuki (Producer) •   Yasuyoshi Tokuma (Executive Producer)





Notable Staff

Steve Alpert (Overseas Promotion Manager) •  Hideaki Anno (Director) •  Masashi Ando (Animator) •  Makiko Futaki (Animator) •  Hitomi Tateno (Animation Check) •  Toru Hara (Producer) •  Takeshi Inamura (Animator) •  Katsuya Kondō (Animation Director) •  Yoshifumi Kondō (Animation Director) •  Koji Hoshino (President) •  Megumi Kagawa (Animator) •  Yoshinori Kanada (Animator) •  Kitarō Kōsaka (Director) •  Kazuo Komatsubara (Art Director) •  Goro Miyazaki (Director) •  Tomomi Mochizuki (Director) •  Hiroyuki Morita (Director)  •  Yoshiyuki Momose (Animation Director) •  Yoshiaki Nishimura (Producer) •  Atsushi Okui (Director of Photography) •  Kazuo Oga (Background Artist) •  Shinsuke Nonaka (Production Affairs Manager) •  Kaoru Mano (Titles) •  Keiko Niwa (Screenwriter) •  Reiko Okuyama (Animator) •  Seiji Okuda (Director) •  Takeshi Seyama (Director) •  Masako Shinohara (Animator) •  Atsushi Takahashi (Storyboard) •  Yohei Takamatsu (Art Director) •  Atsuko Tanaka (Key Animator) •  Yôji Takeshige (Art Director) Kazuhide Tomonaga (Animator) •  Yasuo Uragami (Sound Director) •  Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Sound Director) •  Akihiko Yamashita (Animator Director) •  Michiyo Yasuda (Color Designer) •  Hiromasa Yonebayashi (Director) •  Nizô Yamamoto (Background Artist) •  Kenichi Yoshida (Animator) •  Noboru Yoshida (Art Director) •  Ushiko (Cat)





Music

Joe Hisaishi •  Michio Mamiya •  Yuji Nomi





Association

Eiko Kadono (Author) •  Tokiko Kato (Singer) •  John Lasseter (Director) •   Rieko Nakagawa (Author) •  Tatsuo Hori (Author) •  Mamoru Hosoda (Director) •  Yoshie Hotta (Author) •  Yōichi Kotabe (Senior Animator) •  Naohisa Inoue (Artist) •  Keisuke Miyazaki (Son) •  Kenji Miyazawa (Author) •  Yasuji Mori (Animation Director) •  Hideo Ogata (Animage Editor) •  Osamu Sagawa (Friend) •  Ryōtarō Shiba (Author) •  Mamiko Suzuki (Toshio Suzuki's Daughter) •  Mamoru Oshii (Director) •  Yasuo Ōtsuka (Director)





Affiliated Companies

Anime Torotoro •  NHK •  Nippon Animation •  Tokyo Movie Shinsha •  Fuji TV •  Oh! Production •  Pony Canyon •  Tokuma Shoten •  Tokuma International •  Shinchosha Publishing •  Dentsu •  Tohokushinsha Film Corporation •  Mitsubishi •  Studio Kajino •  Studio Ponoc •  Streamline Pictures •  Toei Animation •  Toei Company •  TopCraft •  Shochiku •  Toho •  The Walt Disney Company •  Central Park Media •  Sentai Filmworks •  GKIDS •  Madman Entertainment









 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater