Title: Air Destroyer Goliath
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Air_Destroyer_Goliath
--------------------------------------------------
The Air Destroyer Goliath  
The Air Destroyer Goliath is a military airship. It is seen in the movie Castle in the Sky. Even though this ship is referred to as an "air destroyer," its weaponry and use as a heavy unit effectively makes it closer to a battleship. In fact, it's official classification defere from an adaptation to an other.

Contents

1 Specifications
2 Role in the Film
3 Gallery
4 Navigation


Specifications[]
Goliath is approximately 348 meters long, being a rigid airship encased in a heavily armored frame. Although the envelope is composed of numerous sections holding hydrogen or helium for lighter than air lift, a large array of propellers, rotors, and wings sustain and maneuver the massive aircraft, granting the behemoth an impressive top speed and agility for its size and mass.
Goliath also carries a large selection of weapons and equipment, including large turret-mounted cannons equipped with armor-piercing shells, smaller barbette-mounted cannons, water cooled machine guns for close ranged anti-air defense, and searchlights. Goliath is also capable of carrying three spy planes on its underbelly and an entire battalion of government troops alongside an already intensive crew. However, despite its immense durability, the airship was incapable of damaging Laputa's infrastructure, nor could its armor withstand the swarms of flying robots deployed against it. 

Role in the Film[]
General Muoro orders Goliath to the fortress at Tedus, where the airship will be used to ferry military troops up to Laputa. Meanwhile, with Colonel Muska holding Sheeta captive in the fortress, she uses the power of her Aetherium crystal necklace to call for help. The power of her necklace awakens the damaged Laputan robot previously recovered by the army. When the robot goes on a rampage to locate and protect Sheeta, Goliath's largest cannons are the only weapons capable of piercing the robot's armor and putting a stop to it. After Sheeta is rescued from the fortress and despite the widespread destruction, Muoro, Muska, and the army are able to continue with their plans to fly to Laputa aboard Goliath thanks to Sheeta's crystal showing them the way. During the journey, the Goliath is able to ambush the Tiger Moth from below cloud cover, emerging and using its smaller cannons and searchlights in an attempt to destroy it. Captain Dola orders the Tiger Moth to evade the warship in the cloud cover, with General Muoro complaining to Muska that they should pursue. Goliath is able to ambush the Tiger Moth a second time between the storm that shelters Laputa, scoring multiple hits with its frontal cannons and seemingly destroying the smaller craft. Upon reaching Laputa, the military forces disembark and proceed to loot the treasures within the ancient structure. With General Muoro and the most of the army distracted, Muska sets his plans into motion and sabotages all the radios aboard Goliath, seriously injuring several guards in the process. After Muska sends Muoro plumetting to his doom and unleashing an army of Laputan Robots, Goliath is then seen taking off haphazardly, with many soldiers failing to get onboard as the boarding ramps collapse. The ship then attempts to blast apart Laputa with its cannons, yet the structure remains unharmed. In response, Robots begin to launch from Laputa and proceed to attack the warship as Muska and Sheeta watch. Despite the army's efforts to fend off the flying Robots, Goliath is no match for the ancient technology and sustains crippling damage from the assault. The airship is last seen nearly split in half and burning after suffering a massive explosion, as it and its crew plummet into the sea to Sheeta's horror.

Gallery[]
Goliath approaching the fortress at TedusGoliath beside the fortressGoliath, docked alongside Laputa.
Navigation[]


Castle in the Sky


Characters


Main Cast

Sheeta | Pazu


Dola's Gang

Dola | Henri | Charles | Louis | Motro


The Army

Muoro | Muska | Colonel Muska's Bodyguards


Denizens of Laputa

Robot | Fox Squirrel


Slagtown Citizens

Duffi | Okami | Train Operator | Uncle Pom | Madge (Castle in the Sky)


Others

Pazu's Father | Sheeta's Grandmother


Miscellaneous


Mechanical Designs

Air Destroyer Goliath | Tiger Moth | Flaptor | Saturn | Automobile | Armored Train | Mine Railway


Locations

Laputa | Tedis | Gondoa | Pazu's Town


Objects

Crystal Necklace


Music

Soundtracks