Title: Akio Ogino
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Akio_Ogino
--------------------------------------------------
Akio Ogino






Japanese name
荻野 明夫 (Ogino Akio)


Species
HumanPig (briefly; spirit world only)


Age
38 years[1]


Gender
Male


First Appearance
Spirited Away


Role
Supporting character


Voice actor (Japanese)
Takashi Naito


Voice actor (Disney)
Michael Chiklis




Don't worry, you've got Daddy here. He's got credit cards and cash.
—Akio Ogino
Akio Ogino (荻野 明夫 , Ogino Akio) is a working-class male, the husband of Yuko Ogino and the extremely overconfident and brave father of Chihiro Ogino in the Japanese animated film Spirited Away. His curiosity, love for adventure and general carelessness first lands him and his family at the Red Gate, the entrance of the Spirit Realm and subsequently places both him and his wife under a curse. 
As punishment for his crimes against the Spirit World by eating a significantly large amount of Spirit Food without permission (and his assumption that money and status permitted this mass consumption), Akio is cursed and transformed into a pig by Yubaba for much of the movie alongside his wife. They are later restored to human form after Chihiro works in the bathhouse to secure their freedom.

Contents

1 Appearance
2 Personality
3 Plot
4 Symbolism
5 Quotes
6 Etymology
7 Gallery
8 References
9 Navigation


Appearance[]
Akio has lightly tanned skin, short, brown hair and small, dark-colored eyes. Compared to other characters in the series, Akio has a very bulky figure, though more of his bulk is attributed to body fat as opposed to muscle. He also grows a very slightly accentuated mustache on his upper lip. He wore a light blue polo shirt with white stripe and blue jeans.
When he is first transformed into a pig in the Spirit World, these clothes were significantly stretched, although he spends the remainder of his time as a pig without wearing them. When restored as a human, his clothes return and in their original size.

Personality[]
While his personality is never fully elaborated on in the film, it is shown in the introduction to the film that he is extremely overconfident and brave, driving his car through an undeveloped footpath in Tochinoki after missing a turn. His curiosity, love for adventure and general carelessness first lands him and his family at the Red Gate, the entrance of the Spirit Realm and subsequently places him under a curse.
While exploring he smells food and follows the smell by repeatedly sniffing the air foreshadowingly in a pig-like manner before excitingly reaching the source; a food stall. He is initially hesitant when he notices nobody is there, but is encouraged to eat after his wife says they can "pay the bill when they get back". When Chihro objects to her parents eating by stating they'd get in trouble, Akio tells his daughter to not worry as he has "credit cards and cash", showing he had an assumption that money and status permitted this mass consumption, which ultimately backfired on him.

Plot[]
Akio is first seen driving a car to his new home. Unfamiliar with the roads there, he misses a turn and compensates by driving over a footpath in hopes to eventually reach his new house. He nearly drives the car into a stone statue and revels in the architectural beauty of the Red Gate. Curiosity piqued, he then takes Yuko Ogino and Chihiro Ogino through the tunnel, unwittingly stepping into the Spirit Realm.
Akio is later seen picking up a scent of food and, with wife and daughter in tow, finds a whole street of unoccupied food stalls. Thinking that all expenses would be paid for (due to his owning of credit cards), Akio and Yūko begin to stuff themselves with food meant for spirits and immediately fall under a curse that prevents them from stopping. He is then seen at sunset still eating at the same food stall at night, both of them having been turned into pigs for their crime of devouring food for the spirits so greedily. As they continue to eat he is eventually whipped by angry spirit stall owners for eating so much food, and squeals in response.
He is next seen sleeping alongside his transformed wife (as pigs) in the pigpen, completely forgetting that he was once a human and ignoring Chihiro's calling. Haku comments that they are sleeping after they "ate far too much" the day before. He is not seen until the end of the movie where he and his wife are waiting for Chihiro by the Red Tunnel entrance, forgetting about their experience as pigs after the dispelling of their curse. Completely unaware of how much time has passed, he exclaims at how dusty and dirty the car has become, and dismisses the mess as a prank as the film ends.

Symbolism[]
Even after he and his wife are turned into pigs they continue to eat. Hayao Miyazaki shows that people are not sensitive of their surroundings, continuing their destructive way. Akio and his wife cause trouble for their child Chihiro, who has now to save them.[2]

Quotes[]
"Chihiro? Chihiro, we're almost there!"
"Look, Chihiro, there's your new school. Looks great, doesn't it?"
"I must've missed the turn-off."
"We're fine, I got four-wheel drive."
"What's that?"
"It looks like an entrance."
"This building's not old, it's fake. These stones are just made of plaster."
''Don't be such a scaredy cat, Chihiro. Let's just take a look."'
"I knew it. It's an abandoned theme park. See? They built them everywhere in the early nineties. But then, the economy went bad, and they all went bankrupt. This must be one of them."
"Look, they were planning to put a river here."
" Hey, do you smell that? Smells delicious."
"Hello? Does anybody work here?"
"Don't worry, you got Daddy here. He's got credit cards and cash."
"A new home and a new school? It is a bit scary."
Etymology[]
The name Akio means "bright" (明) (aki) and "man, husband" (夫) (o).
Akio's surname Ogino means "reed plain", ogi (荻, "reed, rush") and no (野, "field, wilderness").
Gallery[]

References[]


↑ The Art of Spirited Away, page 56

↑ BBC interview with Hayao Miyazaki, Jonathan Ross, BBC documentary Japanorama, show from 2002


Navigation[]


Spirited Away


Characters


Main Cast

Chihiro | Haku


Chihiro's Family

Akio Ogino | Yuko Ogino


Bathhouse Denizens

Aniyaku | Aogaeru | Boh | Chichiyaku | Foreman | Kamaji | Kashira | Lin | Susuwatari | Yubaba | Yuna


Spirits

Kasuga-Sama | No-Face | Radish Spirit | River Spirit | Stink Spirit | Onama-Sama | Ōtori-Sama | Ushioni


Others

Shikigami | Zeniba | Hopping Lantern


Miscellaneous


Locations

Spirit Realm | Red Gate | Clock Tower | Deserted Town | Bathhouse | Boiler Room | Yubaba's Office | Yubaba's Apartment | Sea Railway | Swamp Bottom | Zeniba's Cottage


Objects

Bath Tokens | Dōsojin Statue | Gold


Music

Soundtrack | Always with Me | One Summer's Day | Procession of the Gods | Reprise/Again







 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater