Title: Asbel
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Asbel
--------------------------------------------------
Asbel






Japanese name
アスベル (Asuberu)


Species
New Human


Age
16 years[1]


Gender
Male


First Appearance
Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind


Role
Main character


Voice actor (Japanese)
Yoji Matsuda


Voice actor (English)
Cam Clarke (Prince Milo)


Voice actor (Disney)
Shia LaBeouf




    Nausicaä rescuing Asbel in the Toxic Jungle  Why do all the things that are good for you taste so bad?
—Asbel

Asbel (アスベル Asuberu) also known as Milo in the unlicensed 1985 dub, is one of the primary protagonists in Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind. He has unnamed father and mother. He also had a twin sister named Lastelle.

Contents

1 Story
2 Behind the Voices
3 Personality
4 Relationships
5 Trivia
6 References
7 Navigation


Story[]
Asbel attacks a group of Tolmekian airships with their Princess Kushana and, unbeknownst to him at the time, Princess Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind. Several of the ships are forced to make an emergency landing in the Sea of Decay. There, Nausicaä communicates with several ohmu and discovers that Asbel is still alive. With the help of her glider, Nausicaä rescues him from a swarm of enraged insects. However, they crash and end up in a strange, non-toxic world that is below the Sea of Decay by falling through quicksand. After they both wake up, Asbel reveals to Nausicaä that he is Lastelle's brother and is sad to learn of her death from Nausicaä. She tells him that the plants in the Sea of Decay purify the polluted soil, and in this way produce clean water and sand, which remains hidden in this underground world.
Nausicaä and Asbel return to Pejite, which turns out to be destroyed after the Pejite people lured the insects from the Sea of Decay into their town in order to kill the occupying Tolmekian forces. While Asbel confronts the Pejite Mayor for destroying their home, he assures Asbel they can rebuild. During this some people reveal that they will do the same thing to the Valley of the Winds in order to recapture the God Warrior. This shocks Nausicaä who calls them horrible people for wanting to kill her people. She is told by the Mayor that once a stampede of Ohmn has begun, nothing can stop it but also firmly states that with the Warrior in the Tolmekian’s possession would be an unimaginable fate. To prevent Nausicaä from “alerting the Tolmekians,” they capture her. Sometime later a Tolmeikian ship discovers the Pejite airship. Nausicaä is in a cell but she escapes with the help of Asbel, his mother and a Pejite girl who temporarily swaps clothes with Nausicaä to take her place in the cell. Before she leaves they apologize for the pain they caused, Nausicaä goes below deck with Asbel who helps her to launch. Unfortunately the Tomekian ship attacks and when they attack the airship Asbel tells Nausicaä to leave and get back home, she manages to escape and lures the Tomeikians away and Meito and Yupa arrive and shoot down the airship. With a gunship, she returns to the Valley, but along the way they encounter an enormous herd of enraged Ohmu who are on their way towards an injured baby Ohm, which is used by the Pejite people to lure the Ohmu to the Valley to retrieve the warrior. Nausicaä is shot by the soldiers but releases the baby Ohmu and gains its trust and orders the Pejite soldiers to take her and the baby to where the heard is heading.

In the meantime, the Tolmekians try stopping the herd with armored vehicles they brought with them but to no effect, later Kushana arrives with the God Warrior to stop the Ohmu herd, but the Warrior, woken too early, dies in the process. However, Nausicaä, with the baby Ohmu, is finally able to stop the Ohmu herd, but she is overrun and slain in the process, in front of the Valley people and the Tolmekian forces. The people cry at the loss of the princess, while the Ohmu's rage dies down and they use their gold-colored tentacles to revive Nausicaä, whose dress has turned blue by the baby Ohmu's blood; thus Nausicaä turns out to be the mythological "man" in blue mentioned in the beginning. She is then greeted by her people, who hug her as Asbel soon lifts her into the air in celebration. The film ends with fragments of a future where people and insects live in peace with each other. The toxic jungle eventually becomes cleaner and the world is becoming normal again. The Valley itself begins to prosper and over time the land itself begins to grow again.    Asbel befriends Nausicaä  
Behind the Voices[]
Asbel was voiced by Yoji Matsuda in the original version and Shia LaBeouf in the English dub sponsored by Disney.

Personality[]
Asbel is friendly towards both the Pejitians and Nausicaä as well as supportive. He dislikes the Tolmekians, calling them "bloodthirsty". He has a great deal of enthusiasm for anything he agrees with, but also can be short-tempered and aggressive when provoked.

Relationships[]
Lastelle (deceased sister)
Lastelle's Mother (mother)
Nausicca (friend)


Trivia[]
Miyazaki revealed in an interview that the reason why Nausicca and Asbel didn't become a couple despite Nausicca's feeling towards him, is because he wanted to bust them up because they likely become a couple.
References[]

↑ 『ロマンアルバム 映画 風の谷のナウシカ GUIDE BOOK 復刻版』　徳間書店、2010年、pp.34 - 35。


Navigation[]


Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind


Characters


Main Cast

Nausicaä | Teto | Gol & Gikuri


Valley of the Wind

Jihl | Yupa | Mito | Obaba


Pejite

Mayor of Pejite | Asbel | Lastelle | Asbel & Lastelle's Mother | Pejite Girl


Torumekian Empire

Kushana | Kurotowa


Miscellaneous


Locations

Valley of the Wind | Nausicaä's Tower | Pejite | Toxic Jungle | Torumekia


Mechanical Designs

Dreadnought | God Warrior | Mehve


Creatures

Fox Squirrel | Hebikera | Ohmu


Glossary

Miasma | Seven Days of Fire








 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater