Title: Boar clan
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Boar_clan
--------------------------------------------------
Boar clan






Japanese name
猪神 (Inoshishi-Gami)


Species
Boar Gods


Age
500 (Okkoto) and younger (others)


First Appearance
Princess Mononoke




The Boar clan (猪神, Inoshishi-Gami, lit. Boar Gods) is a faction seen in Princess Mononoke. Only two boars are known by name: Okkoto and Nago.

Contents

1 History
2 Personality
3 Abilities
4 Leaders
5 Navigation


History[]
The boar clan are protectors and inhabitants of their mountains and forests. In time the boars would become archenemies of the humans, as the latter began to encroach on their territory and plunder their lands for resources. The boars are allies with Moro's clan, but they have different ideas regarding fighting Irontown. The boars want to kill all humans, including Moro's daughter San.
Under Nago's leadership, the boars had initially succeeded in wreaking havoc upon the invading humans. However, the tides would turn against the boar clan after coming into conflict with Lady Eboshi, whose introduction of guns led to the humans of her own Irontown faction achieving devastating victories against their adversaries, including the boars. Eboshi herself would shoot Nago one day, causing the boar god’s mind and body to become corrupted by the lead ball lodged into him, and then transforming him into a demon. The corrupted Nago was eventually killed by Ashitaka, but not before inflicting a curse onto him.
Okkoto would lead the boars following Nago’s defeat by Eboshi. Over the long history of battling the humans, it would become clear to the clan that their days were numbered, as their piglets grew weaker, their populace being decimated by the humans’ superior numbers and guns, and no new boar gods would arrive. To this end Okkoto would lead the boars into a massive decisive battle against Irontown, aware that the fight would be one sided, but determined to leave the humans in awe of their wrath.
They were upset the Forest Spirit healed Ashitaka, while the entity didn't save Nago and many boars got slaughtered by humans. They even allege that the wolves have dishonest motives by using the Forest Spirit for a human’s benefit. Okkoto would become aware of Nago’s true fate and decided to spare Ashikata, though threatened to kill him if they ever crossed paths again. Okkoto would also ignore Moro’s advice against fighting the humans in direct battle, determined for his clan to have its last stand before their race deteriorates.
Though joined by the wolves, the boars would be completely wiped out during their battle against the men of Irontown, who were joined by Jigo’s Karakasa-Ren, Ishibiya-Shū, and Jibashiri. In addition to Eboshi’s guns, Jigo’s men would line the battlefield with land mines and chuck bombs at the boars, with little thought given to their allies being endangered by the explosives. Okkoto would also be wounded by gunfire, causing him to begin turning into a demon as Nago had. The Jibashari would then skin some of the boar carcasses, and use the pelts disguise themselves against the blind Okkoto’s sense of smell as the boar god unwittingly led them to the Forest Spirit, whose head Jigo sought to gain a lucrative payout from Emperor Mikado. Okkoto, pleaded to the Forest Spirit to heal him, but would instead be killed by the it alongside Moro, ending his misery.

Personality[]
The boars are proud beings. In combat, they know neither loss nor fallback, and favor to rush from front. They take any challenge, even when they know it is a trap set by humans. Okkoto explains that the boars don't want to get forgotten, so the humans won't forget the proud boars.
All boars gathered to protect the Cedar Forest were respective leaders of their home mountains and forests, and were willing to die to protect the nature. They were aware that boars would be hunted by humans sooner or later as boars become weaker and humans grow in numbers and developing technologies.
They were also saddened to know that Nago turned into a demon.

Abilities[]
As being deities, they possess several different traits from normal boars.
They are capable of speaking human speeches, and are intelligent beings to perform group tactics.
They are tremendously bigger in size, and are powerful to crush rocks and wooden houses, and are durable to easily withstand a volley of ignited arrows.
Despite their sizes, they can run very fast and even can climb vertical cliffs.
Okkoto covers his blindness with his senses of smell, can walk through mountains and forests without problems, and easily detects humans from afar. 
Okkoto also supernaturally understood the fate of Nago when he sniffed Ashitaka's left hand.
Similar to normal boars, they can swim cross the sea.

Leaders[]
All boars participated in the battle against Eboshi and others were respective leaders of their home mountains and forests. Among these, especially three are bigger than others. No boars object the opinion of their leaders. The humans fear the boars' leaders especially because of their sizes and leaderships. 

Navigation[]


Princess Mononoke


Characters


Emishi Village

Ashitaka | Kaya | Ji | Hī-sama | Yakul


Irontown Denizens

Lady Eboshi | Gonza | Irontown Guard | Kiyo | Kohroku | Toki | Osa


Mononoke

San | Forest Spirit/Shishigami | Moro | Moro's clan | Apes | Kodama | Nago | Okkoto | Boar clan


Others

Jigo/Jikobo | Demon | Asano


Miscellaneous


Locations

Cedar Forest | Irontown | Emishi Village


Objects

Crystal dagger


Music

Soundtrack | Ashitaka and San | The Legend of Ashitaka