Title: Camphor Tree
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Camphor_Tree
--------------------------------------------------
Locations






Name
Camphor Tree


⓵ Appearance
My Neighbor Totoro


⓶ Appearance
Mei and the Kittenbus

[ Template documentation ]

Camphor Tree is located in Tsukamori forest and home of Totoro and his smaller friends.

         Camphor tree (Cinnamomum camphora)  
Story[]
Mei Kusakabe falls into the tree's roots and enters an opening, where Totoro is sleeping. She becomes curious and sits on his belly, laughing at him as he sneezes in his sleep. When he wakes up, she asks him what his name is, and he yawns, unable to communicate. The sound of his yawn sounds like, 'Totoro', so Mei decides to call him that. Eventually, she falls asleep on Totoro's belly, and when she wakes up, she's found in by Satsuki Kusakabe in an opening near the tree.
After the Totoro and the smaller Totoros, along with Mei and Satsuki grow the tree where the girls planted the acorns, and roared to make the wind, Totoro and the smaller Totoros played the flute as Satsuki is really good at playing the flute and Mei trying to play the flute on top of the tree.
After Mei ran away because of their mother, Satsuki looked at the tree as she knew that Totoro know what to do, so she head back instead of the entrance but the backyard of their house as she tells the to see Totoro because Mei is lost which is an emergency. Then Satsuki came to the opening path that would lead to the tree and saw a light, when she approached the entrance she tripped on the rock and landed on Totoro's belly. Satsuki tells Totoro that Mei's lost and she looked everywhere but couldn't find her. So, Totoro will help Satsuki as he grabbed her, roared, jumped on the branch and run to the top of the tree. At the top of the tree, Totoro roared again to call the Catbus. Satsuki onboard the Catbus, as she saw the departure board that it says "Mei" when they leave Totoro wave goodbye.
In the end of the film, after Mei and Satsuki left the corn at the hospital, Totoro and the smaller Totoros play the flute.

Religion[]
Next to the tree is a Suitengu shrine.[1] In Japanese religion Shinto, camphor trees are considered holy. Japaneses believe Kodamas live there. As a result, they add a rope with papers around the tree to protect it against bad influences.

References[]

↑ The Art of My Neighbor Totoro, page 92