Title: Celestial Beings
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Celestial_Beings
--------------------------------------------------
Species






Name
Celestial Beings


Japanese notation
天人 or 月の民 (Ten-Nin or Tsuki no Tami)


⓵ Appearance
The Tale of the Princess Kaguya



Come now, in the purity of the City of the Moon...leave behind the world's sorrow and uncleanness.
—Attendant

The Celestial Beings, also referred as Devas (天人, Ten-Nin, lit. "heaven people") or Moon People (月の民, Tsuki no Tami), are a magical race of immortals who live on the moon, being featured in The Tale of the Princess Kaguya. 

Contents

1 Culture
2 Film
3 Trivia
4 Gallery
5 References


Culture[]
The Celestial Beings live in a complete purity in their home, the City of the Moon (jap. 月の都/京, Tsuki no Miyako). They appear to resemble human beings but fairer and more beautiful in appearance.
It is implied that they look down on the Earth, calling it "unclean", and banishment there appears to be a criminal sentence. The inhabitants shouldn't have feelings like happiness or sadness. It is a criminal act to have those feelings. They have names and titles like Jokan or King of the Moon.
They can freely travel to the Earth and back to the Moon. 

Film[]
Princess Kaguya is revealed to be one of the celestial beings and was purposefully banished to earth so she could experience mortal life. She was banished there, because she feels sadness by hearing a song from a female celestial beings.

    Arrival of the Celestial Parade  
On the 15th night of the month, a Celestial Parade descends to retrieve her, Kaguya prepares to leave but is stayed by the cries of her parents. She begs to stay on earth and argues against her kind that the earth's flaws are the source of its beauty.
Sadly, the robe of the moon is draped around her and all her earthly memories are erased, she ascends to the moon with her people. Despite the robe's magic, Kaguya looks back at the Earth with tears in her eyes meaning she could still have her earthly memories.

Trivia[]
The theme music of the Celestial Beings are based on popular music in India and Brazilian Samba.[1]
The arrival scene was inspired by Raigō which Isao Takahata also used for the death scene of Inugami Gyōbu in Pom Poko where he was taken to the afterlife by Buddhism Deities.
Isao Takahata revealed in an interview that the Moon is implied to be an afterlife thus the appearances of the Celestial Beings are based on Buddhism Deities, and Kaguya's return to the Moon is equivalent to death.[2]
Gallery[]

References[]

↑ 月からの一行が奏でていた曲の名は「天人の音楽」。場違いともとれる能天気な音楽ですが、阿弥陀来迎図に描かれている楽器や、月は清浄で悩みもない地であることを考慮し、インドの大衆音楽やブラジルのサンバなどが参考にされた曲になっています。

↑ 『かぐや姫の物語』は、高畑勲との「別れの物語」だ。