Title: Chihiro Ogino
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Chihiro_Ogino
--------------------------------------------------
Information


Gallery






Chihiro Ogino/Sen






Japanese name
荻野 千尋/千 (Ogino Chihiro/Sen)


Species
Human


Age
10 years[1]


Gender
Female


First Appearance
Spirited Away


Role
Main character


Voice actor (Japanese)
Rumi Hiiragi


Voice actor (Disney)
Daveigh Chase †




I think I can handle it.
—Chihiro Ogino
Chihiro Ogino (荻野 千尋, Ogino Chihiro), referred throughout most of the film by Sen (千 lit. "one-thousand"), is the ten-year-old core protagonist of the Japanese animated film Spirited Away.
Contents

1 Appearance
2 Personality
3 History
4 Speculation
5 Quotes
6 Etymology
7 Trivia
8 References


Appearance[]
Chihiro is a ten-year-old girl with shoulder-length straight messy dark dull brown hair usually tied up in a ponytail with slight messy bangs fair rosy slightly tanned skin large round soft wide dark chocolate brown eyes a small cute little button nose and rosy cheeks. She is very petite and small and delicate in frame and build with a slim slight compact childlike body and has a childish appearance and is quite small in stature with a light weight slender body with a round soft pudgy baby face with round cheeks a soft jawline and soft rounded features and soft contours Her attire includes a white medium length-sleeved T-shirt with bright green stripes, bright red shorts, white socks, and sunshine yellow velcro sneakers. While working in the bathhouse, she is barefoot and wears a coral-colored kariginu robe with a white hitoe underneath, short sashinuki pants, and a tasuki cord for tying her sleeves up. Later in the film she is given a sparkly purple hair tie.

Personality[]
Chihiro's growth from a timid child into a capable individual is a core factor in the movement of Spirited Away's plot. During her adventure in the Spirit World, she matures from an easily scared girl with a childlike personality to match her age to a hard-working, responsible, and brave young girl who has learned to put her fears aside for those she cares for. To protect her friends and rescue her parents from a spell that has turned them into livestock, Chihiro sheds her former easily scared childlike  personality and adapts to her environment to become a courageous, caring,brave quick-witted, and reliable girl.
As the story progresses, the strength of her bond with Haku eventually evolves into a heartfelt form of love that dispels Yubaba and Zeniba's respective curses on Haku.

History[]
Chihiro is annoyed about having to move to a new town. She is traveling with her parents, Yuko and Akio Ogino, in their 1996 Audi A4 Quattro to their new home. While driving to their new house, Chihiro's father, Akio, attempts to follow a shortcut; they subsequently lose their way and come across a mysterious red gate and a tunnel which exits to a clock tower and leads to what appears to be an abandoned theme park, lined with seemingly empty restaurants. Finding a restaurant fully-stocked with unattended food, both parents eat the food they find there and, as a result, transform into pigs.

    Chihiro starts to fade away as nightfall begins.  
Chihiro's distress at losing her parents is compounded by the discoveries that the world around her has changed and that her body seems to be disappearing. A mysterious boy named Haku appears, comforts Chihiro, and gives her a red berry to eat, which makes her solid again. He smuggles her into a large bathhouse owned and operated by the evil witch Yubaba, where thousands of spirits come to refresh themselves. Haku tells Chihiro that the only way she can remain in the spirit-world long enough to rescue her parents is by gaining employment in Yubaba's bathhouse. When Chihiro asks Haku how he seems to know her so well, Haku replies that he has known Chihiro since she was very small.

    Haku helps Chihiro survive the night at the bathhouse.  
At first, she tries to get work with Kamajī, who works at the boiler room, but is rejected. Kamajī instead hands Chihiro off to the worker, Lin, to take her to Yubaba. In Yubaba's penthouse suite, Chihiro repeatedly asks for a job, overriding the monstrous witch's refusals. Yubaba ultimately consents, on condition that Chihiro give up her name. Yubaba literally takes possession of Chihiro's real name (荻野 千尋 , Ogino Chihiro) by grasping the kanji characters from Chihiro's signed contract, leaving Chihiro with one part of one character of her original two-character name, in isolation pronounced "Sen" (千). Taking a person's name gives Yubaba power to keep its owner in her service permanently; it is revealed that Haku is also in Yubaba's service, and remains so because she has taken part of his full name.

    Chihiro helps free a river spirit from his sludgy form.  
While at work, Sen gives admittance to a wraithlike spirit called No-Face, who returns the favor by helping her obtain water needed to bathe a "stink sigil" whom no one else will help. After bathing, the stink spirit is revealed to be a powerful River Spirit who rewards Sen with a strong emetic dumpling. 
Subsequently, Sen sees Haku in the form of a white dragon, and later on helps save him from attacking Shikigami. Searching for the injured Haku, Sen encounters Yubaba's big infant son, Boh at her apartment. Sen finds Haku, who was attacked by Zeniba, Yubaba's twin sister, because Haku had stolen her sigil. When Boh distracts Zeniba, she transforms Boh into a mouse, and Yu-Bird into a fly (Haedori) . Zeniba tells Sen that Haku has stolen a magic gold seal from her, and warns Sen that it carries a deadly curse. Haku then rips up the remaining Shikigami, causing Zeniba to disappear. After Haku dives to the boiler room with Sen and Boh on his back, she feeds him part of the dumpling. Doing this, Sen causes Haku to spit out the stolen sigil, which he had swallowed. He also chokes up a black slug which Sen squishes, yet Haku remains unconscious. Hoping to lift Zeniba's curse and save Haku from a coma, Sen decides to set out to return the sigil to Zeniba.

     No-Face develops an obsession for Chihiro, even propositioning her with gold.  
Meanwhile, No-Face has become intoxicated with the greedy atmosphere of the bathhouse and swells into a huge monster, giving illusory gold to the bathhouse workers in exchange for food. When the workers do not comply with his demands, he eats several of them; this causes a panic and the entire bathhouse is thrown into pandemonium. Sen manages to solve the problem by feeding No-Face the remaining emetic, making him regurgitate several million tons of black poison and the bathhouse workers, then leads him out of the bathhouse. No-Face reverts to his former size and demure personality, and along with Sen and Boh, takes the sea railway and travel by train to Zeniba's faraway cottage at Swamp Bottom. At Zeniba's home, Sen gives the sigil back to Zeniba, apologizing for having squished the black slug. An amused Zeniba reveals that the slug had been one of Yubaba's means of controlling Haku, and that the curse put on the seal has already been broken by Sen's friendship.

     Chihiro learning Haku's "real" name.  
In the bathhouse, Yubaba discovers Boh's absence and is enraged. Haku, now revived and restored to his human form, offers Boh's safe return in exchange for Sen and her parents to be freed and restored to normal. Yubaba accepts, but promises to set Sen one final task. Along with Boh and Yu-Bird, Haku and Sen fly back to the bathhouse, leaving No-Face to live with Zeniba as her assistant. En route to the bathhouse, Chihiro remembers a previously suggested meeting with Haku: some time ago, she had fallen into a river and was rescued by the river's spirit. She then realizes that the spirit of this river, called Kohaku River, and her friend Haku are one and the same, and thus revealing Haku's real name, Nigihayami Kohakunushi, which literally translates to "God of the Swift Amber River." At this realization, Haku's dragon form is molted away, and he is completely freed from Yubaba's control.

     The bathhouse staff cheers as Chihiro breaks her contract from Yubaba.  
Yubaba and a large crowd have gathered to witness Chihiro's final task: to pick out her cursed parents from a group of pigs. Chihiro correctly states that none of the pigs displayed by Yubaba are her parents, and thus wins back both her parents' humanity and her own freedom from the bathhouse. Afterward, Haku takes Chihiro to rejoin her restored parents. He bids her farewell and promises that he will come see her again. As Chihiro and her parents return to their world, her parents lose all memory of their visit to the spirit world. The family then gets back in their car and resume their journey to their new home. Miyazaki himself has stated that Chihiro also forgets her adventure in the spirit world, but it is hard to tell in the dub version whether or not she did because of extra lines of dialogue added at the end. These extra lines are from Chihiro's dad and herself; her dad worries about her having to live somewhere else and go to a different school, but Chihiro replies that she thinks she can handle it. In the sub version, she just silently thinks about her adventure.

Speculation[]
     Chihiro ponders her experience after returning to the real world.  Director and creator Hayao Miyazaki mentioned that Chihiro has lost all her memories of the Spirit World after exiting the tunnel. However, according to Haku's promise, he and Chihiro will meet again someday. This may or may not refer to Chihiro's eventual death and transformation into a spirit. However, Zeniba's quote, "Memories are never forgotten; they are just difficult to recall," suggests that Chihiro could, eventually, remember her experiences at The Bathhouse and the Spirit Realm. Regardless, the fate of Chihiro and Haku's relationship remains unknown and is up to the audience's interpretation.
Quotes[]
"I want you to know my real name. It's Chihiro."
—Chihiro to Zeniba

"The wind's pulling us in."
"I'm not going! It gives me the creeps!"
"But mom! Wait for me!"
"Wait a minute."
"Come on, guys! You can't!"
"What's up with him?"
"Come on, you guys! Quit eating! Let's get out of here!"
"I'm dreaming! I'm dreaming!"
"I'm see-through!"
"It's just a really bad dream."
"They did turn into pigs. I wasn't dreaming."
"Kamajī?"
"Yubaba?"
"Please! I gotta get a job here!"
"Yes, ma'am."
"Just a minute, sir."
"He's a good person."
"I knew you were good!"
"We would like to go to Swamp Bottom, please."
"Wow, you're a big baby."
"Staying in this room will make you sick!"
"Germs! I got germs! See?"
"Haku!"
"Shut your mouth!"
"Lin, you know Haku?!"
"There aren't two him, aren't there?"
"I don't feel so good."
"Which ones are you?"
"Mommy!"
"Water?!"
"Bad dream."
"Mom, Dad, it's me Sen! Come on, wake up! Mom! Dad!"
"Don't you worry, I promise I'll get you out of here! So just don't get any fatter or they'll eat you!!!"
"No, you can't!"
"Haku, we're falling!"
"What are those weird buildings?"
"What are those stones?"
"My flowers are dying!"
"Kamajī lit the boiler already?"
"How long was I asleep?"
"I hope Dad hasn't gotten too fat."
"I'm going to go look for Haku!"
"Where is Haku?"
"Are birds chasing him?"
"Haku!"
"Fight 'em!"
"Come on!"
"Haku, you're bleeding."
"It's just paper."
"Thank you, Mr. Boiler Man."
"Please, I just want to work!"
"Please, can't you just give me a job?"
"Everyone, I need my shoes and my clothes, please."
"I think I can handle it."
"I guess my parents will have to wait."
(To Yubaba) "Thank you for everything, Granny."
(To Zeniba) "Granny, I can't remember anything at all. Haku could be dead already, and I'm just sitting around here. My mom and dad could've been eaten for dinner."
Etymology[]
The name Chihiro means "a thousand questions", chi (千, "thousand") and hiro (尋, "search, seek").
Part of the name Chi (in Chihiro) and Sen both use the same Japanese kanji (千), which means 'one thousand', but are different readings of the same character.
Chihiro's surname Ogino means "reed plain", ogi (荻, "reed, rush") and no (野, "field, wilderness").
In some countries, Chihiro's surname Ogino was changed to Senko, so that viewers who do not have a deeper knowledge about the Japanese language wouldn't be confused when her name in the bathhouse was changed to Sen.
Trivia[]
In an interview[2] regarding Chihiro's character design, Hayao Miyazaki informs the audience that "[He] created a heroine who is an ordinary girl, someone with whom the audience can sympathize. It's not a story in which the characters grow up, but a story in which they draw on something already inside them, brought out by the particular circumstances. [He] wants [his] young friends to live like that, and [he] thinks they, too, have such a wish."
Chihiro was based on a real-life girl: the then-ten-year-old daughter of a friend of Miyazaki's. This girl also made Miyazaki continue working after promising retirement from filmmaking after Princess Mononoke (1997).
Chihiro was also inspired of the character, Gerda from Hans Christian Andersen's The Snow Queen: In Spirited Away, it is commented-upon multiple times how many people who come into contact with Chihiro will always end-up liking her and even helping her; in The Snow Queen, the Finnish wisewoman discloses: I can give her no greater power than she has already," said the woman; "don't you see how strong that is? How men and animals are obliged to serve her, and how well she has got through the world, barefooted as she is. She cannot receive any power from me greater than she now has, which consists in her own purity and innocence of heart. If she cannot herself obtain access to the Snow Queen, and remove the glass fragments from little Kai, we can do nothing to help her...
—The Finn Woman from The Snow Queen
When signing Yubaba's contract, she wrote 获 instead of 荻.
References[]


↑ The Art of Spirited Away, page 54

↑ "Miyazaki on Spirited Away", Nausicaa




Spirited Away


Characters


Main Cast

Chihiro | Haku


Chihiro's Family

Akio Ogino | Yuko Ogino


Bathhouse Denizens

Aniyaku | Aogaeru | Boh | Chichiyaku | Foreman | Kamaji | Kashira | Lin | Susuwatari | Yubaba | Yuna


Spirits

Kasuga-Sama | No-Face | Radish Spirit | River Spirit | Stink Spirit | Onama-Sama | Ōtori-Sama | Ushioni


Others

Shikigami | Zeniba | Hopping Lantern


Miscellaneous


Locations

Spirit Realm | Red Gate | Clock Tower | Deserted Town | Bathhouse | Boiler Room | Yubaba's Office | Yubaba's Apartment | Sea Railway | Swamp Bottom | Zeniba's Cottage


Objects

Bath Tokens | Dōsojin Statue | Gold


Music

Soundtrack | Always with Me | One Summer's Day | Procession of the Gods | Reprise/Again







 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater