Title: Clarisse d'Cagliostro
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Clarisse_d%27Cagliostro
--------------------------------------------------
Clarisse d'Cagliotros






Species
Human


Gender
Female


First Appearance
The Castle of Cagliostro


Voice actor (Japanese)
Sumi Shimamoto


Voice actor (English)
Joan-Carol O'ConnellBarbara Goodson (young)Bridget HoffmanCherami Leigh (as Cherami Kuehn)




Clarisse d'Cagliostro (クラリス・ド・カリオストロ Kurarisu do Kariosutoro) is the princess and current ruler of the European Grand Duchy of Gagliostro and a friend of Lupin III from the film The Castle of Cagliostro.

Contents

1 Personality
2 Relationships

2.1 Lupin III
2.2 Count Cagliostro
2.3 Fujiko Mine
2.4 Gardener


3 Trivia
4 Name
5 Quotes


Personality[]
Clarisse is very gentle and caring. As a child, she nurses Lupin back to health after he got injured the night before sneaking into the castle. As an adult, she likewise cares for him when he's knocked out by a fallen tree root, although she doesn't have much time.
She is very brave. After Lupin gets shot, she first risks her life to protect him by laying on top of him, hoping to sheld him from more gunfire, then offers to marry the Count if he spares his life. A few minutes later, she saves Lupin, Fujiko and Zenigata from getting gunned down by Jodot by throwing herself at the machine gun.
She calls Lupin "Ouji-san" for most of the film, which is translated to "Monsieur" in the Netflix subtitles, though in the German dub she addresses him as "Lupin".

Relationships[]
Lupin III[]
Clarisse only sees the good in Lupin, particularly after she saved his life when she was a child. She goes out of her way several times to save him again and again, including throwing herself on top of him when he gets shot. At the end, she desires to go out into the world and be a part of Lupin's gang, but Lupin believes he's been a bad influence on her.

Count Cagliostro[]
Clarisse fears and detests the Count, and though she's a damsel in distress and he physically outmatches her, she fights him any way she can.

Fujiko Mine[]
Clarisse doesn't know Fujiko very well, but trusts her and views her as a confidante during her imprisonment. She is inexperienced in matters of love and expresses curiosity about her and Lupin's relationship.

Gardener[]
Clarisse has a strong bond with the old gardener, who looked after her dog Karl after she was sent away to the convent. She calls him "Grandpa" as a term of endearment, similar to the way Lupin calls Zenigata "Pops".

Trivia[]
She plays an offscreen role in Lupin III: Part V, when she allows Lupin to hide from PeopleLog in the castle's catacombs.
She is named after Clarisse d'Etigues,  Arsène Lupin's wife in The Countess of Cagliostro, who died after giving birth to their son, Jean. Clarisse d'Etigues was the daughter of Baron Godefroy d'Etigues, who was the owner of a fictional castle in Maurice Leblanc's hometown, Étretat.
Clarisse is often cited as an early "Moé" example in Japanese pop culture, although this is criticised throughout the film by Lupin, who several times taunts the "lolita-loving Count" for marrying someone half his age.
Maki Oyamada, a character appeared in Farewell My Beloved Lupin from Lupin the 3rd Part II, and the daughter of Dr. Oyamada who originally created the robots, became the prototype of Nausicaä from Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind. Sumi Shimamoto also voiced Maki Oyamada and Clarisse.
Her begging Lupin to let her join his gang recalls Lupin the First asking Aurelie to join him in a life of crime in 'The Girl with the Green Eyes'. Just as Aurelie refuses, so does Lupin turn down Clarisse's plea.
Name[]
"Clarisse" is a French name meaning "Bright" or "Famous".

Quotes[]
I know. He live into different worlds.
—Clarisse d'Cagliostro