Title: Corey Burton
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Corey_Burton
--------------------------------------------------
Corey Burton (born Corey Gregg Weinberg) is an American voice actor best known as the current voice of Ludwig Von Drake, Captain Hook, and many other characters for numerous Disney projects, as well as characters from Star Wars: The Clone Wars (including Count Dooku, Cad Bane, and Ziro the Hutt) and other cartoons. He has a wide vocal range from voicing high characters, raspy characters, and baritone voices. His baritone voice is the reason why he took over Tony Jay's roles after his death in 2006.
He has also done a lot of narration work. In 2000, he was called in to dub over Deems Taylor's narration in Fantasia. This was done as when the restoration team was preparing Fantasia, some of Deems' narration was missing or in too bad of condition to be publicly released. So, Corey redubbed all of the film's dialogue to give it a consistent flow. He has also narrated several Disney documentaries and bonus features such as The Story Behind Fun and Fancy Free, Bambi: The Magic Behind the Masterpiece, and The Jungle Book: The Making of a Musical Masterpiece. He also provided voice work in several attractions at Disney theme parks, most notably as the monorial tram narration at Disneyland and the Walt Disney World Resort.
He received an Annie Award for his work as Ludwig Von Drake in House of Mouse, and an Annie nomination for his voice work as Captain Hook in Return to Never Land and Jake and the Never Land Pirates. He also voices the Narrator in Future-Worm!

Filmography[]
Additional Voices - Castle in the Sky (2003 Disney version)
Radio Announcer - Kiki's Delivery Service (1998 Disney version)
Additional Voices - Porco Rosso
Additional Voices - Whisper of the Heart
Additional Voices - Princess Mononoke
Additional Voices - My Neighbors the Yamadas
External links[]
 Corey Burton on Anime News Network
Corey Burton on Behind the Voice Actors
 Corey Burton on Wikipedia
Template:Wmf
 Corey Burton at the Internet Movie Database