Title: Daisuke Jigen
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Daisuke_Jigen
--------------------------------------------------
Daisuke Jigen






Species
Human


Gender
Male


First Appearance
The Castle of Cagliostro


Voice actor (Japanese)
Kiyoshi Kobayashi


Voice actor (English)
Ivan Buckley, Richard Epcar


Voice actor (Streamline)
Steve Bulen




Daisuke Jigen is a character in The Castle of Cagliostro. He is a gunman and partner in crime  of Lupin III.
Daisuke Jigen (次元 大介, Jigen Daisuke) is a smooth gunman who is most seen accompanying Lupin in his endeavors and heists. Despite Jigen disliking Lupin's lust for women, to the end he remains Lupin's loyal and reliable partner.

Contents

1 History
2 Abilities
3 Personality
4 Appearance
5 Etymology
6 Trivia


History[]
Jigen and Lupin have been traveling together for about a year. One early morning, they rob a casino and make a getaway in their Fiat. At first they hit the jackpot, but then Lupin realises the bills are counterfeit. Lupin realizes where the money is coming from and heads for Cagliostro. On the way there, he tells Jigen about the "Black Hole" of counterfeit money, how those investigating it were never heard of again. Jigen is interested in the story, but takes a nap. 
Some time later, a tire blows. Lupin wakes Jigen so they can play rock-paper-scissors. Jigen loses and fixes the tire. As soon as it's fixed, they see a high-speed chase going by. Lupin and Jigen find that a young woman is being pursued by a group of men. Jigen answers which one they're helping. Lupin answers "The girl!", to which Jigen replies "Typical". After fighting off the men, the two thieves see that the young woman, Clarisse, is unconscious. Lupin gets Jigen to take the wheel and crosses into the other car. The Fiat gets busted and Jigen crashes it on a mountainside. He sees that Lupin and Clarisse have gone over the edge. He hurries to the bottom of the cliff and finds Clarisse gone and Lupin hurt. Lupin shows Jigen the ring Clarisse left him. Lupin immediately recognizes the ring and, without hesitation, drives Jigen to a house that was burned down near the Castle of Cagliostro. This was where the royal family lived. Lupin tells Jigen of how he once tried to infiltrate the castle, but barely made it out alive.
That night, they dine in a restaurant and fight over spaghetti. Jigen realizes Lupin knew who Clarisse was and didn't tell him. When they get to their accommodation, they're ambushed by a group of mercenaries and escape in the Fiat.
The next day, they camp out in the ruins of the castle. Goemon joins them. Lupin explains their plan, that during the ambush he left a note announcing his arrival and that he invited Zenigata as a distraction.
Night falls, and Lupin and Jigen sneak into the castle through the aqueduct. However, Lupin gets lost in the current and Jigen stays behind with Goemon.
The next morning, Lupin still hasn't returned. Jigen huddles under a blanket while Goemon, unbothered by the cold, stands and watches. 
Hours later, Jigen and Goemon see that Lupin has been badly injured and take refuge with the old gardener.
Three days pass. Lupin sleeps off his injuries. When he wakes up, he demands lots of food, much to Jigen's distress. 
On the day of the wedding, Jigen helps bring in a bandaged Lupin dummy as a decoy, and engages in battle with the Count's men. He retreats to a battlement and continues fighting from there. 
When the battle is over, Jigen leaves the castle with Lupin. He offers the thief stay, but he refuses and happily rides off with Jigen and Goemon in the Fiat.

Abilities[]
Jigen is a master thief and the Lupin Gang's key marksman. He can perform a 0.3-second quick-draw and has an accuracy that borders on superhuman; he can shoot skeet with a handgun, explode a missile before it hits by targeting the warhead, and can deflect another bullet by shooting it in mid-flight. 

Personality[]
Jigen is laconic and subdued, but can be mellow and easygoing when he feels like it. He worries about Lupin, even though he doesn't show it all of the time. Despite being more level-headed than Lupin, he cheerfully gets in on the action.  
His conversation with Lupin at the end of the film contrasts with Part 1 Episode 11. While in the episode, when Lupin says the girl he saved, Lisa, was "nice", Jigen throws Lupin out of a boat in a huff and angrily tells him to go back there by himself, in the film Jigen remarks on how nice Clarisse was and kindly offers that Lupin go back to stay with her. This has shown that over the years, Jigen has had some character growth.  

Appearance[]
Jigen is a lean, olive-skinned man with dark brown-to-black, long-ish hair and a goatee. He wears a black suit and a fedora. He prefers to conceal his eyes using his hat, as it gives him a more enigmatic appearance; when one or both of his eyes are seen, it is occasionally used to demonstrate surprise.

Etymology[]
The name Daisuke means "big, great" (大) (dai) and "help, assist" (介) (suke), which literally means "Big mediation" altogether.
Daisuke's surname Jigen means "dimension" (次元).
Trivia[]
An unused model for the film showed Jigen with his hat off, with a long bushy fringe that, like his fedora, completely conceals his eyes. This hairstyle appeared in the final episode of Part 1 and the Telecom episodes of Part 2.
It's hinted in some media that "Daisuke Jigen" isn't his real name and he isn't even ethnically Japanese, but American.