Title: Dorok Flying Jar
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Dorok_Flying_Jar
--------------------------------------------------
Dorok Flying Jar




Dorok Flying Jar on ground


Vehicle Details

Type
Light Recon Vehicle


Crew Size
2-5


Affiliation
Dorok


Appearance(s)
pg 150




The Dorok Flying Jar[1] is a type of flying vehicle used by the military of the Dorok Principalities. What they are named in the Dorok language is unknown.
The Dorok military use the Flying Jars as light reconnaissance vehicles, much like a helicopter in modern militaries or special tactical platforms.
The Flying Jars are slow, compared to the other aircraft, and lack maneuverability, but they can carry heavy loads[2] and hover, both qualities that are useful.

Appearance[]
The Flying Jar looks like a large, ceramic cauldron with three, short landing legs on the bottom.
The Flying Jars have an open top with one pilot and can have several pintle-mounted machine guns, each with a gunner. Some Flying Jars have heavy guns mounted on the sides[3] which appear to be some form of energy weapon. Maximum occupancy seems to be about 4-5 people.
Over the course of the manga, there are several different sizes and shapes of flying jars. The Holy One and Ketcha use a small flying jar to examine the remnants of the Battle of the Acid Lakes [4].

References[]

↑ DE1a pg 150 (first appearance), pg 168 (identified)

↑ DE1 pg 168

↑ DE1 pg 173

↑ DE1 pg 202


a See Page Conversions Between Editions to convert Deluxe Edition volume 1 (DE1) to other editions



This box: view • talk • edit Ships and Vehicles


Dorok Air Monitor • Dorok Battleship • Dorok Flying Jar • Dorok Tanks • Forest People Boat • Fuel • Glider • Mehve • Miralupa's Private Ship • Pagase Brig • Pejitei Brig • Pejitei Gunship • Ships and Vehicles • Signal Flags • Tolmekian airships • Tormekian Landing Craft • Torumekian Armored Corvette • Torumekian Armored Corvette Galley • Torumekian Strike Bomber • Valley Barge • Valley Gunship • Worm Handler Brig