Title: Earwig
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Earwig
--------------------------------------------------
Earwig






Species
Witch


Age
10 years


Gender
Female


Voice actor (Japanese)
Kokoro Hirasawa


Voice actor (English)
Taylor Henderson




Earwig, also referred to as Aya Tseru (アーヤ・ツール, Āya Tsūru) or Erica depending on translation, is the titular main protagonist of Earwig and the Witch.
Her real name is Ayatsuru (アヤツル, Āyatsuru). 

Contents

1 Plot
2 Appearance
3 Personality
4 Trivia
5 References


Plot[]
Earwig is an orphan who is later renamed as Erica. She is the daughter of the lead singer from Earwig. Her mother named her after the band. She gets adopted later on by the two other members of Earwig and is taught magic by Bella Yaga.

Appearance[]
Earwig is a young girl with brown eyes and brown hair tied up in pigtails. She is often in a striped sweater and apron.

Personality[]
Earwig is headstrong, rambunctious, clever, intelligent and determined. When she sets her sights on something, she will make it happen. She has a high sense of self respect and love for fun. Even when surrounded by adults that are also witches, she manages to get them to do as she pleases. She is very bold and describes herself as unusual.

Goro Miyazaki said of Earwig,The heroine we need right now is someone like Earwig who can think for herself and act on her own. She's someone who can overcome the slightest setbacks and make her way through with wisdom rather than brute force. I think so. Earwig isn't interested in being mean to people or holding anyone back. She's not just manipulating people to make herself comfortable. She helps Bella Yaga teach her magic, and stays up all night if necessary. In order to get something, she takes action and makes an effort. And stand tough.Her friend is Custard.
Trivia[]
Her name "Earwig" is based on the insect of the same name where the insect is thought to crawl into the ear and manipulate thoughts. This is translated in Japanese as "ayatsuru" (操る), which means something like "manipulator", indicating her deeds in the film, and her real name is Ayatsuru.
References[]