Title: Film Guru Guru
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Film_Guru_Guru
--------------------------------------------------
Film Guru Guru






Kanji
フィルムぐるぐる


Rōmaji
Firumu Guru Guru


Directed by
Hayao MiyazakiHiromasa Yonebayashi


Produced by
Toshio Suzuki


Studio
Studio Ghibli


Production
Atsuko Tanaka


Distributed by
Ghibli Museum


Release date(s)
January 3, 2006


Running time
16 minutes


Film Guru Guru (フィルムぐるぐる , Firumu Guru Guru) is a series of animated short films shown at the Ghibli Museum in Mitaka from October 1, 2001, through November 17, 2008. The series was directed by Hayao Miyazaki with storyboards by Miyazaki and Hiromasa Yonebayashi (who also produced).

Contents

1 Overview

1.1 Works


2 Behind the Scenes
3 Remarks
4 External links
5 Navigation


Overview[]
"I want to show how films move in all directions."
—Hayao Miyazaki

Film Guru Guru is based on a concept by ​​Hayao Miyazaki to show audiences how old film projectors worked.  A special projector called Film Guru Guru (literally translated as Film Round and Round) was installed in the Room of the Beginning of Movement, a permanent exhibition room located in the basement of the Ghibli Museum in Mitaka, Tokyo. 
An 80-meter film is spun at a speed of 24 frames per second on 124 reels, and short animations are projected on three screens. Additionally, there are three points where the picture appears to move in a single frame by projecting a blinking strobe light directly on the film from behind. This special light blinks at a slightly slower speed than the film's running speed (the light blinks 23.3 times versus 24 frames per second) providing an added dimension to the motion.
There are a total of eight short animated works produced for Film Guru Guru. A Splendid Ball, Rambutan Adventures, and Fish Fish, were initially available in a single reel of film when the museum opened on October 1, 2001. Tacolator, Piyopiyo Baba, and Bobo-kun, were added On November 27, 2002. In March 2005, sound effects were added to the exhibit. The film were replaced with Madalan World on April 18, 2007. That film was then replaced with Evolution on November 17, 2008. Madalan World and Evolution do not have sound effects, while the other six films with sound effects were moved into a mini-theater exhibit in the same permanent exhibition area.

Works[]
Film Guru Guru consists of the eight original motion pictures, featuring work by veteran animation director Atsuko Tanaka.

A Splendid Ball (華麗なる舞踏会 , Kareinaru Budōkai) (released October 1, 2001)
A doll in a white dress spins at an incredibly high speed and then returns to a stationary state. While the doll is spinning, the skirt of the dress soars, which is beautifully depicted due to the speed of its rotation.
Rambutan Adventures (ランプータンの冒険 , Ranpūtan no Bōken) (released October 1, 2001)
    A retro-style cartoon featuring Rambutan chasing after a villain to save the damsel.  
A minute long short depicting a fight between Rambutan and a villain in a convertible. During the fight, the protagonist is thrown out of the car. The villain then approaches the hero's girlfriend, who desperately resists his advances by repeatedly kicking him in the face. Meanwhile, the protagonist gives chase on foot at an incredible speed and manages to jump onto the car and fend off the villain. Rambutan then hugs his girlfriend. The villain reappears and tears the two lovers apart, and the film loops as Rambutan hits the villain once again. The characters limbs stretch and contract, reminiscent of American animation in the 1920s.
Fish Fish (魚の魚 , Sakana no Sakana) (released October 1, 2001)
    Stills from Fish Fish, which is about an endless cycle of fish eating one another, and Tacolator, a looping scene of an octopus climbing some stairs.  
Several red fishes converge towards a small white fish, until one of them eats the white fish. A big fish appears and eats the red fish, who is then eaten by an even bigger fish. Several larger fishes appear and are eaten one after another. Finally, a massive white fish appears, and after eating a large green fish, swims toward the back of the screen. The white fish seemingly shrinks as it moves away towards the end of the screen, and becomes the white fish seen in the beginning. The red fish eats the white fish once again, and the film loops once again. The film makes good use of perspective.
Tacolator (タコレーター , Takorētā) (released on November 27, 2002)
An octopus climbs an underwater stairs from the lower left to the upper right of the screen. The film features complex movements of the octopus's legs and the fluctuation of water around it.
Piyopiyo Baba (ぴよぴよバーバ , Piyopiyo Bāba) (released on November 27, 2002)
    Piyopiyo Baba features Yubaba from Spirited Away laughing, and Evolution is about two characters chasing each other around as they evolve through time and motion.  
Yubaba, a character from Spirited Away, returns in this short. She turns to the front, opens her mouth and laughs, and when she turns 180 degrees and turns backward, a small bird comes out of her hair and screams. When the little bird retracts into her hair, Yubaba turns 180 degrees again, turns to the front, and laughs once more.
Bobo-kun (ぼうぼう君 , Bōbō-Kimi) (released on November 27, 2002)
A short film of a fire demon called "Bobo-kun," eating one piece of coal after another. This character would later be re-used as Calcifer, who appears in Howl's Moving Castle.
Madaran's World (マダラン界 , Madaran-kai)(released April 18, 2007)
An unseen entity scatters green grains across some sand, and they slowly united to form a creature called "Mitochondria". This Mitochondria swallows a black worm called "Hamushi", which resembles a pill bug, and becomes a pink worm similar to an "earthworm". The earthworm or "Mimizu" moves toward the back of the screen, and defecates black poop along the way. A character called "Hun" appears and grows legs and becomes a "poop" and moves around a little bit. At the same time it rains and a puddle spreads and swallows the poop. When this one poop that remained until the end dives into the ground so as to escape from the water, the whole area becomes flooded, and a monster called "Tedaa" swims in the puddle. Eventually, when the water drains, a grass called "Mandora Gora" grows from the place where the dung is submerged, and it grows at a tremendous speed. The stems grow up, and many small white insects called "Nuro" walk toward the budding flowers, but the creature "Mogubo" also moves toward the flowers while eating Nuro. When Mogubo enters the flower, the flower produces a fruit called "blue strawberry", which falls to the ground and shatters. The shattered strawberries turn into green grains, which coalesce into Mitochondria again. The video then loops.
Evolution (進化論 , Shinka-ron) (released November 17, 2008)
     Madaran's World's crude drawings featuring anthropomorphic poop.  
The film tells the story of evolution on two characters. In the end the human looks for a bird, a longtime friend. It begins underneath the sea, where ancient creates are born from bubbles and that then evolve into fish. One of the main characters is a primitive creature being chased by a big fish, and is seemingly eaten until it manages to escape on land. He then begins walking on land and evolves into a frog. Meanwhile, the big fish that chased him also evolves into a frog, and a competition begins. Both begin a race where they evolve from a fish to a lizard and from a lizard to a dinosaur. The main character becomes a small herbivorous dinosaur, and is then chased as the other character becomes a large carnivorous dinosaur. As he escapes, the hero changes from a dinosaur to a cat, and dives into the lake and escapes once again. The carnivorous dinosaur then becomes a large bird and leaves. The hero who came out of the lake then changes from a cat to a monkey, and eventually became a bipedal humanoid and climbs a steep mountain road, but becomes a human boy as he stands on the summit. A human girl eating rice balls sits at the top, and when the main character boy hands her a bouquet, her outfit changes to a wedding dress, and they all live happily ever after.
Behind the Scenes[]
     Ghibli Museum's permanent exhibition where Film Guru Guru can be found.  
Few details are available regarding who worked on these animated shorts. At the very least, the director, storyboard and screenplay were by Hayao Miyazaki, the animation direction was handled by Atsuko Tanaka, photography by Yayoi Toki, and color designation by Michiyo Yasuda. Tanaka herself is a legendary animator who first worked at Shin-Ei Animation, later joining the Telecom studio, where she met up with Miyazaki where they collaborated on The Castle of Cagliostro and Sherlock Hound. She joined Studio Ghibli and worked on several other of his films. When describing her experience working for the man as such, "I’ve been working alongside Miyazaki for a long, long time, even before Ghibli. And before that, I think he was much scarier to be around. After Ghibli, of course, he was very strict on the work we do. However, he wasn’t really doing anything with us, so that was good."
Meanwhile, Hiromasa Yonebayashi was said to have directed Evolution, and many of its design cues and imagery of ancient sea creatures due to it being produced at the same time as Ponyo. Since it was created to be in line with the theme of the Ghibli Museum's permanent exhibition room, which was "to have fun of seeing pictures moving," the animation is very smooth, sporting a high number of drawings per second. Besides Evolution, each work has the same beginning and ending pictures, allowing the films to be looped in perpetuity.

Remarks[]
It is shown on a loop on film projector in the permanent exhibition room located at the basement floor of the Ghibli Museum in Mitaka.
The first animated shorts shown in the exhibit were A Splendid Ball, Rambutan Adventures, and Fish Fish.
They were first produced as silent films, but music later was added in March 2005.
External links[]
Film Guru Guru on Ghibli Freak
Navigation[]






 V • T • E    Credits





Credits




Founders

Hayao Miyazaki (Director) •  Isao Takahata (Director) •  Toshio Suzuki (Producer) •   Yasuyoshi Tokuma (Executive Producer)





Notable Staff

Steve Alpert (Overseas Promotion Manager) •  Hideaki Anno (Director) •  Masashi Ando (Animator) •  Makiko Futaki (Animator) •  Hitomi Tateno (Animation Check) •  Toru Hara (Producer) •  Takeshi Inamura (Animator) •  Katsuya Kondō (Animation Director) •  Yoshifumi Kondō (Animation Director) •  Koji Hoshino (President) •  Megumi Kagawa (Animator) •  Yoshinori Kanada (Animator) •  Kitarō Kōsaka (Director) •  Kazuo Komatsubara (Art Director) •  Goro Miyazaki (Director) •  Tomomi Mochizuki (Director) •  Hiroyuki Morita (Director)  •  Yoshiyuki Momose (Animation Director) •  Yoshiaki Nishimura (Producer) •  Atsushi Okui (Director of Photography) •  Kazuo Oga (Background Artist) •  Shinsuke Nonaka (Production Affairs Manager) •  Kaoru Mano (Titles) •  Keiko Niwa (Screenwriter) •  Reiko Okuyama (Animator) •  Seiji Okuda (Director) •  Takeshi Seyama (Director) •  Masako Shinohara (Animator) •  Atsushi Takahashi (Storyboard) •  Yohei Takamatsu (Art Director) •  Atsuko Tanaka (Key Animator) •  Yôji Takeshige (Art Director) Kazuhide Tomonaga (Animator) •  Yasuo Uragami (Sound Director) •  Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Sound Director) •  Akihiko Yamashita (Animator Director) •  Michiyo Yasuda (Color Designer) •  Hiromasa Yonebayashi (Director) •  Nizô Yamamoto (Background Artist) •  Kenichi Yoshida (Animator) •  Noboru Yoshida (Art Director) •  Ushiko (Cat)





Music

Joe Hisaishi •  Michio Mamiya •  Yuji Nomi





Association

Eiko Kadono (Author) •  Tokiko Kato (Singer) •  John Lasseter (Director) •   Rieko Nakagawa (Author) •  Tatsuo Hori (Author) •  Mamoru Hosoda (Director) •  Yoshie Hotta (Author) •  Yōichi Kotabe (Senior Animator) •  Naohisa Inoue (Artist) •  Keisuke Miyazaki (Son) •  Kenji Miyazawa (Author) •  Yasuji Mori (Animation Director) •  Hideo Ogata (Animage Editor) •  Osamu Sagawa (Friend) •  Ryōtarō Shiba (Author) •  Mamiko Suzuki (Toshio Suzuki's Daughter) •  Mamoru Oshii (Director) •  Yasuo Ōtsuka (Director)





Affiliated Companies

Anime Torotoro •  NHK •  Nippon Animation •  Tokyo Movie Shinsha •  Fuji TV •  Oh! Production •  Pony Canyon •  Tokuma Shoten •  Tokuma International •  Shinchosha Publishing •  Dentsu •  Tohokushinsha Film Corporation •  Mitsubishi •  Studio Kajino •  Studio Ponoc •  Streamline Pictures •  Toei Animation •  Toei Company •  TopCraft •  Shochiku •  Toho •  The Walt Disney Company •  Central Park Media •  Sentai Filmworks •  GKIDS •  Madman Entertainment









 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater