Title: Fly-By-Night
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Fly-By-Night
--------------------------------------------------
A bag of fly by night flower  
The Fly-By-Night (夜間飛行, Yakan Hikō), also known as the Flower of Witch (魔女の花, Majo no Hana), are magical glowing flowers featured in Mary and the Witch's Flower.

Contents

1 Description
2 Powers and Abilities
3 History
4 Gallery


Description[]
Fly-By-Nights only bloom once every seven years, the legend has it that witches covet the flower for its magical power.

Powers and Abilities[]
     
Anyone who exposed to fly-by-night flower's special nectar will momentarily attain tremendous magic power, more than enough to perform most potent of spells. If they happened to be a magic user, their magic will be amplified tenfold for the duration of its power boost.
Objects properly imbued with fly-by-night nectar, usually through carved inscription on its surface, will attain magical properties related to inscription in question and limited sentience where they answer to those who similarly exposed to the nectar. Should the effects of the nectar on the user wears off, bewitched object under their command will become inert until they apply fly-by-night flower's nectar once again.
The flowers also noted to be volatile and magic they release upon detonation will trigger supernatural anomalies. Most notably, after crash-landed following her escape from Endor College, Charlotte dropped a bag of fly-by-night flowers she stole from the academy resulting its contents to spill to the ground and explode, accelerating the growth of plants and animals alike within the blast radius. This stressed potential dangers the flowers pose if mishandled.

History[]
Madam Mumblechook and Doctor Dee to obsessively pursue a project to use the flower to transform all humans into witches and warlocks ever since Charlotte showed them a sample. However, in their selfish obsession, they failed to take necessary precautions that their experiments led to disaster. As the result, Charlotte had no choice but to resign from Mumblechook's school, reclaim the flowers, and went incognito. Her escape was anything but smooth as the corrupt headmistress' forces attempted to stop her, culminating to the stolen flower to fell into the woods and hasten the growth of trees there. In the confusion, Charlotte managed to elude her pursuers, unaware of the fiasco ensured new flowers fo grow there.

Gallery[]