Title: Fujimoto
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Fujimoto
--------------------------------------------------
Fujimoto






Species
Human (formerly)Wizard


Age
At least 40 years


Gender
Male


First Appearance
Ponyo on the Cliff by the Sea


Role
Sea Wizard


Voice actor (Japanese)
Joji Tokoro


Voice actor (Disney)
Liam Neeson




Fujimoto (フジモト , Fujimoto) is a character and a main antagonist in the film, Ponyo. He is a researcher and father to Ponyo and her sisters and husband to Granmamare. He commands an underwater boat called the "Basking Shark" and resides in an underwater harbor.

Contents

1 Appearance
2 Personality
3 Abilities

3.1 Magic Power
3.2 Summoning


4 Relationships
5 Trivia
6 Quotes
7 Etymology
8 References
9 Navigation


Appearance[]
Fujimoto is slender and appears to be 40-years old, but he may have lived much longer. He claims he was once human, which implies he underwent some changes in order to become the wizard he is now. This may be a clue as to why he has strange, bird-like markings on his cheekbones and around his eyes.
He has long red hair like Granmamare and his daughters, with turquoise, almost green, eyes. He wears a very strange cerulean and white-striped suit with a magenta cravat. On his ears are golden, round earrings.
Near the end, he wears a similar white-striped suit, although this time the cerulean stripes are a salmon red, and the cravat is yellow.
Throughout the movie he wears a dark magenta coat with a gold clasp at the front. It's long sleeves have holes right where the inside of Fujimoto's elbow would be, and his arms are often through the holes.
When upon land, he uses a contraption he explains is a humidifier, to wet the ground with pure sea water as he is walking along it. This may imply he cannot go on land comfortably without it, or may have a risk of death without it. Also, when seen by humans, he is described as appearing very strange and perhaps shady, or to be avoided. This is only assumed, as he means no harm to humans although he seems to dislike them, especially with the waste they throw into the ocean.

Personality[]
While Fujimoto seemed placed into the role of villain, but he is only ever acting in what he believes is best for Ponyo. However, he is strict to his daughter Ponyo, and it may come across as him trying to control his daughter rather than keep her safe. For Lisa he is kind of a creep, who mistakes him for spraying pesticide, which is actually the purest ocean water so he can survive on land.
In his core he is a good man, who cares about his daughters. He is only over-pessimistic, he hates humans, because humans pollute the environment, and more specifically the sea. So he uses magic to purify the sea from the humans’ waste. For that purpose he creates potions and elixirs, which if mixed correctly he pours into a well in one of the rooms in his underwater harbour. Because of humanity's destructive behavior, he becomes over-pessimistic. His wife, Granmamare adds more optimism to his mind.
The seniors get to know him better as the story progresses. For them, Fujimoto is a nice guy with strange behaviours, and one claims that he wouldn't allow anyone to be harmed.

Abilities[]
    Fujimoto using a special water pump so he won't dry up.  
Since he was once human, he can't breathe underwater, but he can longer survive on land unless there is a source of water nearby. 

Magic Power[]
He learned to use magic to live longer and to purify the sea. He has worked on his elixirs since 1907.[1] His daughter Ponyo has more magic power than him due to her not being born human like Fujimoto was. He is, however, able to create bubbles of air, or water, as seen when he is underwater himself, and when he transported Ponyo back to his underwater harbour.

Summoning[]
He can summon Sea Monsters. He uses the monsters mostly to scout the water, and he used them to rescue Ponyo from Sōsuke.

Relationships[]
Ponyo, his eldest daughter, christened "Brünnhilde". He appears to have a somewhat difficult relationship with her, being a bit strict after she disobeys him - causing her to run away. However he cares deeply for Ponyo, and eventually allows her to remain human.
Ponyo's Sisters, his younger daughters. Unlike Ponyo, they are passive, and listen to their father, staying in their ship and bubble. But they become rebellious when Fujimoto is trying to get his daughter back from Sosuke for the third time.
Granmamare, the Goddess of Mercy, and his wife. He appears to be intimidated by her power and status, but loves her nonetheless. It's implied that he understands why she cannot always be there to help take care of his daughters, but understands she loves them and him very much.  The story goes, he first met his wife on the submarine Nautilus. He was the only Asian on it. It was love on the first sight
Sōsuke, the boy who Ponyo fell in love with. Fujimoto doesn't hold any ill will towards the boy, but he may blame him for taking his daughter away. However he has no mean to harm Sosuke.
Lisa, Sosuke's mother. He doesn't appear to hold any resentment for her, as shown when he tried to just talk to her to get Ponyo back for the first time.
Toki, one of the old ladies. She is the only senior not to leave with Fujimoto, and he's been seen getting annoyed at her not understanding what will happen if Ponyo keeps upsetting the balance of nature.
Yoshie, one of the old ladies. She asks if Fujimoto will allow harm to come to Ponyo or Sosuke, to which he responds with that he would never, but he hopes that Ponyo will stay sleeping.
Trivia[]
When designing Fujimoto, Miyazaki explained that Fujimoto was never supposed to be the villain, he instead stated that he wanted to base him off of the typical father of Japan, most of whom barely know their own daughters.
His daughters have more magic power than him, which may be because their mother is a goddess, and they were not born human. In addition they are rebellious, and while Ponyo showed signs early in the movie, Ponyo's Sisters showed this nature later on in the film.
His wife leaves him alone often, because she travels on the sea around the world. Her duty as a goddess is to protect the sea, a similar job to Fujimoto's.[1]
It is unclear as to why Fujimoto became a wizard in the first place, but a reason could very well be that when he was human he wanted to protect the sea, and could not do it as a human. However this is only speculation.
Despite drying out on land and surviving in the sea, he is unable to breathe underwater as a bubble appears over him when under the sea.
This may be due to the fact that because he was born a human he doesn't have the means to breathe underwater.
He appears to be quite smart, although he may have a short temper.
He messes with his hair whenever he gets stressed or annoyed.
Quotes[]
Try to remember me kindly... if you will. Take care of Ponyo
—Fujimoto to Sosuke by his redemption

“What? This is not weed killer! This is the purest ocean water, and it keeps me from drying out on land!” -To Lisa, during his first attempt to get Ponyo back.
“It’s not your fault. I exposed you to the magic and you’re too young to understand. I have to keep the sea in balance it’s a big responsibility.” -To Ponyo, while trying to get her to eat
“Human? Ugh, what do you know of humans, Brunhilde, they spoil the sea! They treat their home like their empty black souls.” -To Ponyo, after she claimed she wanted to be human
”You can’t be human and magic at the same time sweetheart.” -To Ponyo, as he stopped her attempt to become human
“If even one living creature got in here...” -To himself, while looking around the room with the elixir well
“It’s been a long time, my love.” -To Granmamare, after meeting her once more after an undetermined amount of time
"It's good to meet you Sōsuke. We've all been waiting for you, the old ladies, your mother..." -To Sōsuke, meeting him for the first time in person.

Etymology[]
The surname Fujimoto is written in katakana (フジモト), which has no special meaning. However, when written in kanji (藤本), it could possibly mean "wisteria" (藤) (fuji) and "base, root, origin, source" (本) (moto).
References[]

↑ 1.0 1.1 「映画『崖の上のポニョ』に登場する気になるものたち」東宝ステラ編集『崖の上のポニョ』, retrieved July 19th, 2008


Navigation[]


Ponyo


Characters


Main Cast

Ponyo | Sōsuke


Ponyo's Family

Fujimoto | Granmamare | Ponyo's Sisters


Sōsuke's Family

Lisa | Kōichi


Retirement Home

Toki | Yoshie | Kayo


Others

Karen | Kumiko | Junior | Junior's Parents | Bridge Guard | Newscaster | Sea Monster


Miscellaneous


Locations

Sosuke's House | Himawari Nursery School | Koganei Maru | Underwater Harbor


Objects 

Green Bucket | Jellyfish | Sōsuke's Boat


Music

Soundtrack  | Gake no Ue no Ponyo







 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater