Title: Gauche the Cellist
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Gauche_the_Cellist
--------------------------------------------------
Gauche the Cellist





							Poster
							
						



							Alternate
							
						



















Kanji
セロ弾きのゴーシュ


Rōmaji
Sero Hiki no Gōshu


Directed by
Isao Takahata


Screenplay by
Isao Takahata


Based on
Sero Hiki no Gōshu by Kenji Miyazawa


Music by
Michio Mamiya


Art Directed by
Takamura Mukuo


Production
Oh! Production


Release date(s)
January 23, 1982


Running time
34 minutes


Gauche the Cellist (セロ弾きのゴーシュ , Sero Hiki no Gōshu), transliterated as Goshu the Cellist, is an animated film directed by Isao Takahata and produced by Oh! Production. It premiered on January 23, 1982.
Based on a short story by the Japanese author Kenji Miyazawa that was published in 1934, a year after he passed away. It is about Gauche, a struggling small-town cellist who is inspired by his interactions with anthropomorphized animals to gain insight into music. The story has been translated into English, Italian and Spanish, and had previously been adapted to the screen several times. It received the Award Noburo Ofuji Award for 1982, the top animation award given at the Mainichi Film Awards.
It was released on VHS by Taurus Video in 1985, followed by a DVD release on September 22, 2000, by Japan Pioneer LDC. It was subsequently released on DVD on December 21, 2003, and July 7, 2006. It was released on Blu-ray by Walt Disney Studios Japan on July 17, 2015. 
An interactive Apple Book containing essays by Isao Takahata, scans of Cuckoo News, an independently published booklet by Opro, image boards and roundtable discussions was released on December 3, 2014, in Japan.
Miyazawa's work would go on to inspire several animated adaptations, including The Night of Taneyamagahara, directed by Kazuo Oga and produced by Studio Ghibli.

Contents

1 Plot
2 Characters
3 Appreciation
4 Behind the Scenes
5 Release
6 Cast
7 Credits
8 References
9 External Links
10 Navigation


Plot[]
    Gauche being berated by the conductor.  Set in rural 1920s Japan, Gauche is a diligent but mediocre cellist who plays for a small-town orchestra called, The Venus Orchestra (金星音楽団 , Kinsei Ongaku Dan). He struggles during rehearsals and is often berated by his conductor during preparations for an upcoming performance of Beethoven's Sixth Symphony (known as the Pastoral Symphony, due of its close associations with nature).
Over the course of four nights, Gauche is visited at his mill house home by talking animals as he is practicing. The first night, a calico cat came to Gauche and, giving him a tomato, asked him to play Schumann's [[Wikipedia:Kinderszenen|Träumerei]. Gauche was irritated, as the tomato was from his garden outside, so he berated the cat and instead played "Tiger Hunt in India" (Michio Mamiya). This startled the cat and made it leap up and down in astonishment. The cat ran away in fright.
The second night as he was practicing, a cuckoo came to him asking to practice scales to Gauche's cello accompaniment. Gauche repeatedly played "cuckoo, cuckoo", accompanied by the bird. Eventually, he felt that the cuckoo's song was better than his cello. Gauche chased the bird away, causing it to fly into his window, hitting its head.

     Gauche is visited by a strange calico cat, who offers him some advice.  The third night as he was practicing, a Japanese raccoon dog came to him asking to practice the timpani to Gauche's cello accompaniment. As Gauche played The Merry Master of a Coach Station, the tanuki hit the cello with a drumstick. The tanuki pointed out to Gauche that he played slowly despite trying to play speedily. The two left on good terms as the day broke.
The fourth night as he was practicing, a mother mouse came in with her baby, asking him to heal her sick son. When Gauche told her that he wasn't a doctor, she replied that the sound of his music had already healed a number of animals. Gauche put the sick little mouse into a hole of his cello and played a rhapsody. When Gauche finished, the little mouse became fine and was able to run around. The mother mouse cried and thanked Gauche, and left.

     Thanks to his animal friends, Gauche learns to play magnificently.  The Sixth Symphony concert was a great success. In the dressing room, the conductor asked a surprised Gauche to play an encore. Upon hearing the applauding audience, Gauche thought he was being made a fool of and again played Tiger Hunt in India. Afterward, everybody in the dressing room congratulated him.
When he came back to his house, he opened the window where the cuckoo had hit its head and felt sorry for his actions. The ending scenes shows the animals and Gauche at peace, playing to the music of the Pastoral symphony.

Characters[]
Gauche (ゴーシュ)
The main character of the film. He plays the cello. There is a theory that his name comes from the French word for "clumsy" (the original meaning of "gauche" is "left") (there is also a theory that the French for "cuckoo" and "cello" is derived from an onomatopoeia). He belongs to the symphonic orchestra called Venus Music Group, but as his name suggests, Gauche is not good at playing cello and is constantly scolded by the conductor. He improves as he begins to interact with the various animals that visit his home in the middle of the night.
Conductor (楽長)
The Conductor of Venus Music Orchestra. He has a very keen ear and is very critical of Gauche.
Calico Cat (三毛猫)
The Calico Cat is the first animal to visit Gauche's home. He's offered a tomato to play Schumann's Träumerei. He has a cheeky attitude, which irritates Gauche at first.
Cuckoo (かっこう)
He enters Gauche's home to learn how to sing Doremifa (scales). Unfortunately, his attempts at singing scales proves to be a failure as he can only sing "Cuckoo". This distresses poor Gauche.
Appreciation[]
     A picture book for Gauche the Cellist illustrated by Aya Sato. It's been adapted several times in different mediums.  Gauche's personality is crude, subservient young man who oppresses the weak (a cheeky calico cat) as a means of dealing with being scolded by the conductor. However, his humility and compassion gradually grows as he interacts with these strange animals that visit his home, and as a result, he matures to a young man that can truly understand music.
The conductor often scolds Gauche saying, "the sound was delayed (the rhythm was bad)", "the thread ( pitch ) does not match", and that "the emotion did not come out". While Gauche learned nothing from the calico cat, he unknowingly sees the importance of song selection and rehearsals. Gauche became aware of his pitch deviation through repeated practice with the cuckoo, and learned the characteristics of his cello through his interactions with the raccoon dog. Gauche then gained the confidence to perform in front of a large crowd.
By improving his rhythm, pitch and emotion, Gauche's performance moved the audience. Gauche understood he had finally progresses after being praised by the conductor, and showed his gratitude towards his animal friends.
Despite apologizing to the Cuckoo, he does not do so for the calico cat. There is a theory that author Kenji Miyazawa hated cats and a belief that "If a person abuses a cat too much, it will never come back as it is a creature that is not satisfied with the apology." 

Behind the Scenes[]
     A staff working on Gauche the Cellist.  In 1982, the novel was adapted into animation by a Japanese animation studio, Oh! Production. It was directed and written for the screen by Studio Ghibli cofounder Isao Takahata. Kōichi Murata, who served as Key Animator for several World Masterpiece Theater series, along with Lupin the Third Part I and The Mystery of Mamo, was the executive producer. 
Michio Mamiya composed the songs Indian Tiger Hunting and Fun Carriage Shop. Saida Shunji, who worked with Takahata on Anne of Green Gables and Chie the Brat served as Animation Director, and was also responsible for character design, key animation and layout. Meanwhile, Takamura Mukuo was hired as Art Director, while Kenji Matsumoto played an important role in conceiving  the background art which is for both exteriors and interiors beautifully rendered in the style of watercolor paintings.[1]]

     An interactive Apple Book was released on December 3, 2014, dedicated to the film. It compiles essays by Isao Takahata, making-of material such as background and image boards, a roundtable discussion and footage of its premiere.[2]  Isao Takahata said, "It is also a movie for the youth that is subjectively for us,". He also wrote in the film's pamphlet, "I would like junior and senior high school students and young people who are struggling for independence to watch it." 
Gauche's voice actor was Hideki Sasaki and the cat's voice actor was Fuyumi Shiraishi. The lead key animator, Shunji Saida, took cello lessons so that he could accurately capture finger movements. The 63-minute film took five years to complete and was highly acclaimed as one of the best film adaptations of Miyazawa's works. The film premiered on January 23, 1982, and was nominated for the 1981 Noburo Ofuji Award in the same month.

Release[]
A Region 2 NTSC DVD was released in Japan in 2000 by Pioneer with English subtitles. Pioneer re-released for the Japanese market in 2003. A Region 2 PAL DVD was released in France by L.C.J. in 2001, containing a French audio track. Studio Ghibli and Buena Vista Home Entertainment re-released it as a double-disc DVD in 2006, the 110th anniversary of Miyazawa's birth (Ghibli released its adaptation of Kenji Miyazawa's The Night of Taneyamagahara on the same date). The 2006 release contained Dolby Digital audio and English subtitles.
The story had previously been adapted for the screen three times, in 1949, 1953 and 1963. The 1949 adaptation was animated and was directed by Yoshitsugu Tanaka and produced by Ichirou Ono of Nippon Eiga (日本映画). The 1953 adaptation was produced using puppets and dolls and was directed by Kenjiro Morinaja. The 1963 adaptation was animated and directed by Matsue Jinbo, and produced by Masatsugu Hara of Gakken Eiga Kyoku.

Cast[]
Masashi Amenomori - Conductor
Junji Chiba - First cellist
Kōichi Hashimoto - Mr. A
Kaneta Kimotsuki - Kakukou, Cuckoo
Atauko Mine - Orchestra musician
Youichi Mitsubashi - Orchestra musician
Ryūji Saikachi - Concertmaster
Hideki Sasaki - Gauche
Fuyumi Shiraishi - Cat
Kazue Takahashi - Child tanuki
Akiko Takamura - Mother mouse
Kouji Yada - Master of Ceremonies, Host
Saburou Yokoo - Orchestra musician
Keiko Yokozawa - Girl with Viola, Child mouse
Credits[]


Credit

Staff


Director, Screenplay
Isao Takahata


Music
Michio Mamiya


Animation Director, Character Design, Key Animation, Layout
Shunji Saida


Art Director
Takamura Mukuo


In-between Animation
Azuma Numajiri, Emiko Tsukima, Hiroe Arakawa, Jouji Yanase, Junko Fukuda, Junko Saida, Junko Yonekawa, Kazuhide Tomonaga, Ken'ichi Okamoto, Kitaro Kousaka, Kumiko Tsukada, Mariko Nomura, Megumi Takeara, Noboru Takano, Nobuhiro Aihara, Noriko Goto, Ryoko Kishimoto, Shojuro Yamauchi, Sumie Nishido, Sumie Suzuki, Tadashi Fukuda, Taeko Otsuka, Takashi Namiki, Tomoko Kitaura, Yoko Tomizawa, Yuka Hoya, Yuzumi Enosawa


Paint
Fumie Itō (Studio Hibari), Kikue Hayashi (Studio Kuma), Kiyoshi Katakawa (Studio Targe), Kozue Niino (Studio Hibari), Mami Onogaki (Studio Hibari), Masao Yoshiyama (Tokyo Paint Lab), Mieko Shimamura (Studio Hibari), Norichika Iwakiri (Studio Killy), Noriko Shiotani (Studio Targe), Shie Hirase (Studio Targe), Shōji Sumibe (Studio Kuma), Takanori Kato (Studio Kuma), Yasuko Suzuki (Studio Targe), Yasutaka Kawashima (Studio Hibari), Yukie Aoyagi (Trace Studio M), Yukiko Nagahama (Trace Studio M), Yuko Nishikawa (Studio Kuma)


Planning
Kazuo Komatsubara, Kouma Yonekawa, Koushin Yonekawa


Background Art
Akira Yamakawa, Hiromi Koono, Masuo Nakayama, Shizuko Kawamura, Tadao Kubota, Takamura Mukuo, Yasushi Nakamura, Yoshiyuki Shikano, Yukihiro Yokoyama


Executive Producer
Kōichi Murata


Cellist
Mitsuo Yashima


Cooperation
Masaaki Otsuka, Mitsuo Aoki, Tsutomu Tsukada, Yuko Toda

References[]

↑ "Gauche the Cellist", Nishitaka Eiga.

↑ "Gauche the Cellist" on Apple Books.


External Links[]
Official

Gauche the Cellist Official Homepage
Information

 Gauche the Cellist on Anime News Network
 Gauche the Cellist at the Internet Movie Database  
Gauche the Cellist on Wikipedia
Online Shopping

Gauche the Cellist on Apple Books
Navigation[]






 V • T • E    Credits





Credits




Founders

Hayao Miyazaki (Director) •  Isao Takahata (Director) •  Toshio Suzuki (Producer) •   Yasuyoshi Tokuma (Executive Producer)





Notable Staff

Steve Alpert (Overseas Promotion Manager) •  Hideaki Anno (Director) •  Masashi Ando (Animator) •  Makiko Futaki (Animator) •  Hitomi Tateno (Animation Check) •  Toru Hara (Producer) •  Takeshi Inamura (Animator) •  Katsuya Kondō (Animation Director) •  Yoshifumi Kondō (Animation Director) •  Koji Hoshino (President) •  Megumi Kagawa (Animator) •  Yoshinori Kanada (Animator) •  Kitarō Kōsaka (Director) •  Kazuo Komatsubara (Art Director) •  Goro Miyazaki (Director) •  Tomomi Mochizuki (Director) •  Hiroyuki Morita (Director)  •  Yoshiyuki Momose (Animation Director) •  Yoshiaki Nishimura (Producer) •  Atsushi Okui (Director of Photography) •  Kazuo Oga (Background Artist) •  Shinsuke Nonaka (Production Affairs Manager) •  Kaoru Mano (Titles) •  Keiko Niwa (Screenwriter) •  Reiko Okuyama (Animator) •  Seiji Okuda (Director) •  Takeshi Seyama (Director) •  Masako Shinohara (Animator) •  Atsushi Takahashi (Storyboard) •  Yohei Takamatsu (Art Director) •  Atsuko Tanaka (Key Animator) •  Yôji Takeshige (Art Director) Kazuhide Tomonaga (Animator) •  Yasuo Uragami (Sound Director) •  Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Sound Director) •  Akihiko Yamashita (Animator Director) •  Michiyo Yasuda (Color Designer) •  Hiromasa Yonebayashi (Director) •  Nizô Yamamoto (Background Artist) •  Kenichi Yoshida (Animator) •  Noboru Yoshida (Art Director) •  Ushiko (Cat)





Music

Joe Hisaishi •  Michio Mamiya •  Yuji Nomi





Association

Eiko Kadono (Author) •  Tokiko Kato (Singer) •  John Lasseter (Director) •   Rieko Nakagawa (Author) •  Tatsuo Hori (Author) •  Mamoru Hosoda (Director) •  Yoshie Hotta (Author) •  Yōichi Kotabe (Senior Animator) •  Naohisa Inoue (Artist) •  Keisuke Miyazaki (Son) •  Kenji Miyazawa (Author) •  Yasuji Mori (Animation Director) •  Hideo Ogata (Animage Editor) •  Osamu Sagawa (Friend) •  Ryōtarō Shiba (Author) •  Mamiko Suzuki (Toshio Suzuki's Daughter) •  Mamoru Oshii (Director) •  Yasuo Ōtsuka (Director)





Affiliated Companies

Anime Torotoro •  NHK •  Nippon Animation •  Tokyo Movie Shinsha •  Fuji TV •  Oh! Production •  Pony Canyon •  Tokuma Shoten •  Tokuma International •  Shinchosha Publishing •  Dentsu •  Tohokushinsha Film Corporation •  Mitsubishi •  Studio Kajino •  Studio Ponoc •  Streamline Pictures •  Toei Animation •  Toei Company •  TopCraft •  Shochiku •  Toho •  The Walt Disney Company •  Central Park Media •  Sentai Filmworks •  GKIDS •  Madman Entertainment









 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater