Title: Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Giant_God_Warrior_Appears_in_Tokyo
--------------------------------------------------
Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo






Kanji
巨神兵東京に現わる


Rōmaji
Kyoshinhei Tôkyô ni Arawaru


Directed by
Shinji Higuchi


Produced by
Takeshi KobayashiToshio Suzuki


Screenplay by
Hideaki Anno


Narrated by
Megumi Hayashibara


Music by
Taisei Iwasaki


Editing by
Atsuki SatoEimi Lee


Production
Studio Ghibli


Release date(s)
July 10, 2012 (museum)November 17, 2012 (theater)


Running time
9 minutes


Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo (巨神兵東京に現わる , Kyoshinhei Tôkyô ni Arawaru) is an live-action kaiju short film that premiered during the exhibition Director Hideaki Anno’s "TOKUSATSU" Special Effects Museum-Craftsmanship Of Showa & Heisei Eras Seen Through Miniatures held on July 10, 2012, at the Museum of Contemporary Art Tokyo. The film was directed by Shinji Higuchi and produced by Studio Ghibli. It was subsequently released in theaters and screened alongside Evangelion: 3.0 You Can (Not) Redo on November 17, 2012.

Contents

1 Production
2 Synopsis
3 Overview
4 Release
5 References
6 External Links
7 Navigation


Production[]
See also: Shiki-Jitsu

The design of the film's giant creature, the God Warrior was provided by Hayao Miyazaki from his manga series Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind, and animated by Hideaki Anno. Featuring practical effects such as miniatures, the film is Studio Ghibli's first live-action production.
Higuchi once considered to re-use his model of Tokyo Tower for Heisei Gamera Trilogy, but the idea was eventually scrapped and the model was displayed at theaters instead.[1]

Synopsis[]
    The God Warrior rampaging through Tokyo. Practical effects were used in the original museum cut of the film.  
During an average day in Tokyo, the narrator is shocked by the arrival of her brother, who has been away at college. He tells her that a great disaster is coming and the city will be destroyed tomorrow. She exclaims that it is just a rumor being spread around the Internet, but her sibling insists. He explains that before every disaster there is an omen or warning that precedes it. The narrator becomes frightened and believes the person in front of her to be an imposter. He tells her that he is the omen and that she should carefully decide how to react to this event before vanishing before her.
Meanwhile, glowing spores have descended upon Tokyo, eventually coalescing to form an enormous being that hovers above the city. The narrator explains that gods are not only creators, but also destroyers, which is why humans worship them. The giant being begins aimlessly walking through Tokyo as the city's inhabitants look on. Suddenly, it stops and its mouth opens to reveal a device that unleashes a horrifying beam that ravages Tokyo, destroying the entire city and leaving a mushroom cloud in its wake.

    The God Warriors assemble in a scene reminiscent of "Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind".  The narrator explains that the world has a set life span and that, if it were up to humans, life would be prolonged indefinitely. Despite its inhabitants' objections, the Earth itself called upon the God Warrior to initiate the Seven Days of Fire which will end the planet's existence. She believes that if the Earth took seven days to create, it will take just as long to destroy it.
As the entire legion of God Warriors descend upon the ruins of Tokyo, the narrator says that she will forego what the gods have planned and is awaiting what will remain after they have destroyed Earth.[2]

Overview[]
    Toshio Suzuki, Hideaki Anno and Shinji Higuchi standing by a tokusatsu prop at the Hideaki Anno Special Effects Museum.  The film was planned by Hideaki Anno, who was the director of the exhibition Hideaki Anno Special Effects Museum, which has been held on July 10, 2012. The giant god warriors from Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind make an appearance in the film, as Anno was once an animator of the giant god warrior scene of that film. Shinji Higuchi, a storyboard artist whose credits include series such as Attack on Titan, Gunbuster, Diebuster, Macross Plus, Tekken: Blood Vengeance and Shin Ultraman, was tapped to direct.
Anno restricted the use of CG for the project, instead relying on practical special effects technology and digital composition. Many classic miniatures from the Marbling Fine Arts, Toho, and Tokusatsu Research Institute were used in the film. 
Megumi Hayashibara, the voice of Rei Ayanami in the Evangelion franchise, narrates the film while Hayao Miyazaki provides the "voice" of the god warriors.
It received the VFX-JAPAN Award on February 23, 2013.

Release[]
     The TV broadcast featuring CG effects from the theatrical version.  On November 17, 2012, it was screened alongside Anno's anime movie Evangelion: 3.0 You Can (Not) Redo under the title Theatrical Version Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo. Unlike the museum version, the narration and sounds was altered, and an end credits roll was added. The god warrior's wings are now in done in CG, and cosmetic enhancements were made to utility poles, sparks, etc. It was included on the BD/DVD release of Evangelion: 3.0 that was released on April 24, 2013.
Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo Theatrical Version TV Version was aired for the first time on terrestrial broadcasting together with Evangelion: 3.0 You Can (Not) Redo TV Version on September 5, 2014. The audience rating on the Friday Road SHOW! program it was aired on  was 10.0% in the Kanto region.

References[]

↑ Heisei Gamera Perfection. ASCII MEDIA WORKS. 8 February 2014.

↑ Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo on Wikizilla.


External Links[]
 Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo on Anime News Network
 Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo at the Internet Movie Database  
Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo on Wikipedia
Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo on Wikizilla
Navigation[]






 V • T • E    Credits





Credits




Founders

Hayao Miyazaki (Director) •  Isao Takahata (Director) •  Toshio Suzuki (Producer) •   Yasuyoshi Tokuma (Executive Producer)





Notable Staff

Steve Alpert (Overseas Promotion Manager) •  Hideaki Anno (Director) •  Masashi Ando (Animator) •  Makiko Futaki (Animator) •  Hitomi Tateno (Animation Check) •  Toru Hara (Producer) •  Takeshi Inamura (Animator) •  Katsuya Kondō (Animation Director) •  Yoshifumi Kondō (Animation Director) •  Koji Hoshino (President) •  Megumi Kagawa (Animator) •  Yoshinori Kanada (Animator) •  Kitarō Kōsaka (Director) •  Kazuo Komatsubara (Art Director) •  Goro Miyazaki (Director) •  Tomomi Mochizuki (Director) •  Hiroyuki Morita (Director)  •  Yoshiyuki Momose (Animation Director) •  Yoshiaki Nishimura (Producer) •  Atsushi Okui (Director of Photography) •  Kazuo Oga (Background Artist) •  Shinsuke Nonaka (Production Affairs Manager) •  Kaoru Mano (Titles) •  Keiko Niwa (Screenwriter) •  Reiko Okuyama (Animator) •  Seiji Okuda (Director) •  Takeshi Seyama (Director) •  Masako Shinohara (Animator) •  Atsushi Takahashi (Storyboard) •  Yohei Takamatsu (Art Director) •  Atsuko Tanaka (Key Animator) •  Yôji Takeshige (Art Director) Kazuhide Tomonaga (Animator) •  Yasuo Uragami (Sound Director) •  Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Sound Director) •  Akihiko Yamashita (Animator Director) •  Michiyo Yasuda (Color Designer) •  Hiromasa Yonebayashi (Director) •  Nizô Yamamoto (Background Artist) •  Kenichi Yoshida (Animator) •  Noboru Yoshida (Art Director) •  Ushiko (Cat)





Music

Joe Hisaishi •  Michio Mamiya •  Yuji Nomi





Association

Eiko Kadono (Author) •  Tokiko Kato (Singer) •  John Lasseter (Director) •   Rieko Nakagawa (Author) •  Tatsuo Hori (Author) •  Mamoru Hosoda (Director) •  Yoshie Hotta (Author) •  Yōichi Kotabe (Senior Animator) •  Naohisa Inoue (Artist) •  Keisuke Miyazaki (Son) •  Kenji Miyazawa (Author) •  Yasuji Mori (Animation Director) •  Hideo Ogata (Animage Editor) •  Osamu Sagawa (Friend) •  Ryōtarō Shiba (Author) •  Mamiko Suzuki (Toshio Suzuki's Daughter) •  Mamoru Oshii (Director) •  Yasuo Ōtsuka (Director)





Affiliated Companies

Anime Torotoro •  NHK •  Nippon Animation •  Tokyo Movie Shinsha •  Fuji TV •  Oh! Production •  Pony Canyon •  Tokuma Shoten •  Tokuma International •  Shinchosha Publishing •  Dentsu •  Tohokushinsha Film Corporation •  Mitsubishi •  Studio Kajino •  Studio Ponoc •  Streamline Pictures •  Toei Animation •  Toei Company •  TopCraft •  Shochiku •  Toho •  The Walt Disney Company •  Central Park Media •  Sentai Filmworks •  GKIDS •  Madman Entertainment









 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater