Title: Hoshi o Katta Hi
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Hoshi_o_Katta_Hi
--------------------------------------------------
The Day I Bought a Star




Promotional visual


Kanji
星をかった


Rōmaji
Hoshi Wo Katta Hi


Directed by
Hayao Miyazaki


Produced by
Toshio Suzuki


Screenplay by
Hayao Miyazaki


Based on
The Day I Bought a Star by Naohisa Inoue


Starring
Ryunosuke KamikiKyoka SuzukiGenzo WakayamaHiroshi Oizumi


Music by
Nobuhiro TsuruYuriko Nakamura


Art Directed by
Yohei Takamatsu


Production
Studio Ghibli


Release date(s)
January 3, 2006


Running time
16 minutes


The Day I Bought a Star (星をかった日 , Hoshi wo Katta Hi) is a 16-minute animated short film written and directed by Hayao Miyazaki, produced by Studio Ghibli and released on January 3, 2006. It is one of the twelve short films that can only be seen in the Saturn Theatre at Ghibli Museum in Mitaka, Tokyo and Cinema Orion in Ghibli Park.
The film is based on an original story by Naohisa Inoue, creator of Upward Draft, a mural located in the central hall of the Ghibli Museum. Set in the fantasy world of Iblard, a young boy named Nona, who lives alone in a farm owned by a mysterious witch named Niinya, buys a magical seed that grows a planet. Ryûnosuke Kamiki was cast as Nona, having previously worked on previous Ghibli films such as Spirited Away and Howl's Moving Castle.
The soundtrack was composed and performed by Yuriko Nakamura and Norihiro Tsuru.[1] A children's book based on this film was published on April 1, 2006, by Fictitious Company.[2]
An unrelated work set also in Iblard, Iblard Jikan was released on July 4, 2007, by Studio Ghibli.

Contents

1 Plot

1.1 The Windy Day
1.2 Nona's Star


2 Behind the Scenes

2.1 Development
2.2 Production
2.3 Connection to Howl's Moving Castle


3 Trivia
4 Voice Cast
5 Credits
6 References
7 External Links
8 Navigation


Plot[]
The Windy Day[]
    Nona at the Time Bureau.  Nona, a disaffected young boy, flees the city to escape working at the "Time Bureau", a place that oversees time. He then wanders the desert until he meets Niinya, a witch, who offers him a new life working at her farm.
One blustery Autumn day, on the way to the market to sell some vegetables he has grown, a boy named Nona meets two strange men,  Scopello and Makinso, traveling together. They are next to a train that seems to have suddenly stopped in the middle of nowhere (there are no tracks). The men open some cases they are carrying and announce that they are selling planets. The cases contain a few pieces of what look like samples of clods of earth or rocks.
The boy exchanges some vegetables for a seed of the smallest planet takes it home, and begins to raise it by the window in a shed. He puts some soil in a pot, plants the seed in it, and sprays some water on it with a spray bottle.

Nona's Star[]
    Nona is fascinated by the evolution of his little planet.  The boy lives in a house in the middle of where that belongs to Niinya. Niinya usually leaves her house at dusk and returns in the morning, and never bothers Nona. He gets up early in the morning goes to his garden, and spends most of the day there. Nona may have parents and go to school, but we are never given any information on this. We can only assume that, on order to be able to return home, Nona has to uncover some sort of personal secret. 
When the light of the moon shines through the window, the planet starts to float out of the pot and to revolve. It is growing. And it reveals a type of genesis. The water vapor from Nona's spray bottle eventually generates clouds, and rain starts to fall on the little planet. Lightning flashes in the clouds, and the rain that falls eventually covers half the planets in the clouds. We see the birth of primitive seas on Earth recreated. 

    Niinya tells Nona to give away his little planet.  The planet absorbs the soil in the pot and gradually gets bigger and bigger. Grass seeds in the soil in the pot and gradually gets bigger and bigger. Grass seeds in the soil put down roots on the continents, and a single pill bug starts crawling about, like the ancestor of all living things. The boy takes  a blanket into the shed and watches the planet develop, almost like the Creator, watching over the world He has created.
Eventually, things around the boy become too chaotic. Niinya intervenes and Nona has to say goodbye to the planet.[3]

Behind the Scenes[]
Development[]
     Upward II was a mural painted by Naohisa Inoue from December 2001 to April 2002 for the Ghibli Museum.  In the early 90's, Hayao Miyazaki met Naohisa Inoue after seeing his paintings of the fantasy world called Iblard. Miyazaki liked his work so much that in 1994, Inoue was invited to work on Whisper of the Heart. "The film featured a number of imaginary sequences set in Iblard, starring Baron and Shizuku. "Iblard has highly original light, color, and stories behind it; it's a sparkling and glowing world where what appear to be clouds and rocks and plants are all vaguely mixed together, where even planets and time meld together. It's rather like the mantel Alice finds in Lewis Carroll's Through the Looking Glass. There are all sorts of unusual things, and when you look at any number of them to try to ascertain their shape and color, they become blurred, and you find yourself looking outo f hte corner ofyour eye at other things that seem even prettier."[4]
     Inoue published his own version of the story, which expands on the film.  In 2002, Inoue was invited to the Ghibli Museum's to paint a mural dedicated to Iblard called Upward II.[5] While Inoue was working on the mural, Miyazaki happened to pass by and overheard a customer talking to Inoue about his process. Miyazaki then praised his work despite Inoue's modesty in not being experienced at painting on a wall. "I don't care. It's good. I paint more like 'pashan, pashan' (onomatopoeia of Miyazaki's painting style) like I always paint on the wall. Please do so." Miyazaki said.
"Inoue-san has created both a children's illustrated book and a manga set in the world of Iblard. Quite a while ago, I received a copy of the manga and read it over and over, and occasionally wondering to myself if it also could be made into a film. It was probably when Inoue-san was doing a mural for the Ghibli Museum hall that, in the course of a conversation, he told me his plan to create an illustrated children's book. That's when he first happily told me the story for "The Day I Bought a Star."

The hero has harvested a lot of turnips and goes to the market to sell them, but along the way he encounters some dwarfs selling planets. With only turnips, he doesn't really have enough money to buy a planet, but one of the dwarfs agrees to sell him one, if he raises the planet properly, and a year later invites them to a party on it. And with that the hero raises the planet, and when it becomes big, he takes off for a variety of adventures on it.
When Inoue told Miyazaki this, he was excited as a small child. In his original draft, he stated that he wanted the main protagonist to be a girl, but Miyazaki argued that he wanted a boy. At the time, Miyazaki felt many of his films featured women as protagonists and wanted to try something different. "With this, it occurred to me, "we can pull it off. We can make a film about Iblard." The more we talked, the more we decided we wanted to make a film. But Inoue-san wanted the protagonist to be a girl, and the moment he told me his story I had already decided that it was about a boy. And neither of us would yield."

Production[]
     The world of Iblard, fully realized by Studio Ghibli.  Years would pass, and both Inoue and Miyazaki became busy with their careers. "We both became busy, and with one thing or another, time just kept slipping by. Inoue-san kept on, not drawing his children's book, and I kept on, only occasionally recalling what we had talked about," said Miyazaki. Inoue had nearly given up, when shortly after Howl's Moving Castle completed production, Miyazaki gave him a call. Miyazaki explained there was a gap in Ghibli's production schedule, and that he had been planning to create a new short film for the Ghibli Museum.[6] What Miyazaki failed to mention was that he had been already begun working on the storyboard for the short and decided that a boy would be the main protagonist. According to Miyazaki:
"About two years later, the moment I finished Howl's Moving Castle, we had an opening in the studio's schedule. It was a real chance for us to make a short film for the Ghibli Museum. As quickly as possible - which means, nonetheless, that quite a bit of time went by - I went ahead and created some continuity sketches for the story, without telling Inoue-san. And of course I made the hero of the story a boy.

     Nona was working at Niinya's garden when he's suddenly approached by Scopello and Makinso, two slippery individuals offering him a bunch of seeds that grow planets.  After that, I had Toshio Suzuki, the producer of our films, take the sketches to Inoue-san. And I was lucky, because Inoue-san was delighted with them - even though I had violated the basic rules we were operating under a bit. Inoue-san's own idea for his manga and illustrated children's book took seed and, as time went by, sprouted and on its own sent forth more leaves than I could ever have dealt with. And this is how "The Day I Bought a Star" came to be."
Production began, and the film was completed and released on January 3, 2006. "In this film, Iblard is another world, but we don't know where it is, and we don't know if it exists right next to the real world, or whether it is only in our own minds. If Nona were to always remain in Niinya's garden, I think that he would eventually fade away and disappear. But I also think that Nona wouldn't be interested in forsaking the world of Iblard and living only in our world." 
"To quote American author Raymond Chandler from his novel Playback, "If I wasn't hard, I wouldn't be alive. If I couldn't ever be gentle, I wouldn't deserve to be alive. To me, that is Iblard."

Connection to Howl's Moving Castle[]
While the film has nothing to do with Howl's Moving Castle, several similarities were noted by its producer, Toshio Suzuki and famed director Mamoru Oshii during the 2012 live broadcast on Nico Nico called Mamoru Oshii's Live Broadcast That Makes Half the World Angry.
Suzuki:
Did you see that? The Day I Bought a Star.
Oshii:
"The Day I Bought a Star?"
Suzuki:
Have you seen it? The one at the museum.
Oshii:
Yeah.
Suzuki:
Then I'll show you next time. We did a side story unusually which featured Howl in his youth. So, in a nutshell, a young, beautiful Witch of the Waste also appeared there.
Oshii:
Oh, that's interesting.
Suzuki:
So, in short, she took away Howl's virginity... and it was a good story.
Oshii:
Miya-san (Miyazaki), you're absolutely good at short stories.
Naohisa Inoue, who wrote the original draft, took to Twitter to clarify his thoughts on the matter. "I heard directly from Hayao Miyazaki that Suzuki-san said that Niinya and Nona were witches and are related to Howl in the later wastelands. I laughed and said, the witch (in The Day I Harvested a Star) wasn't that big, so I at least I wanted it to be Suliman (the antagonist from Howl's Moving Castle)."[7]

Trivia[]
The film was first screened at the Saturn Theatre, located in the basement of the Ghibli Museum.
A subtitled version is available for hearing impaired viewers.
Voice Cast[]


Character

Voice Actor (Japanese)


Nona
Ryunosuke Kamiki (神木 隆之介)


Ninia
Kyoka Suzuki (鈴木 京香)


Scopello
Genzō Wakayama (若山 弦蔵)


Makinso
Hiroshi Oizumi (大泉洋)


Credits[]


Credit

Staff


Director, Screenplay
Hayao Miyazaki


Original Creator
Naohisa Inoue


Animation Cooperation
Anime Torotoro


Art Director
Yohei Takamatsu


Animation Director
Megumi Kagawa


Director of Photography
Atsushi Okui


Key Animation
Fumie Konno, Katsutoshi Nakamura, Kenichi Yamada, Masako Sato, Moyo Takahashi, Sachiko Sugino, Shinichiro Yamada, Shunsuke Hirota, Takeshi Inamura


In-Between Animation
Akiko Teshima, Alexandra Weihrauch, Asami Ishikado, Kaori Fujii, Kiyoko Makita, Mai Nakazato, Masakiyo Koyama, Masako Sakano, Masami Nakanishi, Masaya Saito, Maya Fujimori, Mayumi Ohmura, Megumi Higaki, Minoru Ohashi, Rie Fukui, Rie Nakagome, Ritsuko Shiina, Seiko Higashi, Shuko Sasagawa, Sumie Nishido, Takahito Sugawara, Tomoko Miura, Yasuko Ohtomo, Yasuo Muroi, Yayoi Toki, Yukie Kaneko


Digital Animation
Miki Satō, Naoko Ishizuka, Norihiko Miyoshi, Susumu Masuuchi, Yū Karube


Background Artists
Kikuyo Yano, Masako Nagata, Mitsuo Yoshino, Naohisa Inoue, Noboru Yoshida, Sayaka Hirahara, Takashi Omori, Yoshikazu Fukutome, Youichi Nishikawa, Youji Takeshige


DigitalPaint
Akane Kumakura, Fumiko Numahata, Hiroaki Ishii, Hiromi Takahashi, Kanako Takayanagi, Kazuko Yamada, Naomi Mori, Rie Furushiro, Youko Fujioka,


Editor
Megumi Uchida, Takeshi Seyama


Producer
Toshio Suzuki


Music
Ayako Karasawa, Norihiro Tsuru, Yasuhisa Yamamoto, Yuriko Nakamura


Music Production
Noriko Tsushi, Tamaki Kojo

References[]

↑ The Day I Bought a Star OST, Nausicaa

↑ "The Day I Bought a Star", Amazon Japan

↑ Proposal For "The Day I Bought a Star", Naohisa Inoue (August 30, 2004)

↑ Welcome to the Ghibli Forest Short "The Day I Bought a Star", Pamphlet for the Film, Tokuma Memorial Cultural Foundation for Animation (January 1, 2006)

↑ Interview with Naohisa Inoue on Lawson. 2020.

↑ Official Ghibli Report on Iblard and Howl Connection.

↑ Naohisa Inoue's response on Twitter regarding Howl and Iblard Connection.


External Links[]
 Hoshi o Katta Hi on Anime News Network
 Hoshi o Katta Hi at the Internet Movie Database  
 Hoshi o Katta Hi on Wikipedia
Navigation[]






 V • T • E    Credits





Credits




Founders

Hayao Miyazaki (Director) •  Isao Takahata (Director) •  Toshio Suzuki (Producer) •   Yasuyoshi Tokuma (Executive Producer)





Notable Staff

Steve Alpert (Overseas Promotion Manager) •  Hideaki Anno (Director) •  Masashi Ando (Animator) •  Makiko Futaki (Animator) •  Hitomi Tateno (Animation Check) •  Toru Hara (Producer) •  Takeshi Inamura (Animator) •  Katsuya Kondō (Animation Director) •  Yoshifumi Kondō (Animation Director) •  Koji Hoshino (President) •  Megumi Kagawa (Animator) •  Yoshinori Kanada (Animator) •  Kitarō Kōsaka (Director) •  Kazuo Komatsubara (Art Director) •  Goro Miyazaki (Director) •  Tomomi Mochizuki (Director) •  Hiroyuki Morita (Director)  •  Yoshiyuki Momose (Animation Director) •  Yoshiaki Nishimura (Producer) •  Atsushi Okui (Director of Photography) •  Kazuo Oga (Background Artist) •  Shinsuke Nonaka (Production Affairs Manager) •  Kaoru Mano (Titles) •  Keiko Niwa (Screenwriter) •  Reiko Okuyama (Animator) •  Seiji Okuda (Director) •  Takeshi Seyama (Director) •  Masako Shinohara (Animator) •  Atsushi Takahashi (Storyboard) •  Yohei Takamatsu (Art Director) •  Atsuko Tanaka (Key Animator) •  Yôji Takeshige (Art Director) Kazuhide Tomonaga (Animator) •  Yasuo Uragami (Sound Director) •  Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Sound Director) •  Akihiko Yamashita (Animator Director) •  Michiyo Yasuda (Color Designer) •  Hiromasa Yonebayashi (Director) •  Nizô Yamamoto (Background Artist) •  Kenichi Yoshida (Animator) •  Noboru Yoshida (Art Director) •  Ushiko (Cat)





Music

Joe Hisaishi •  Michio Mamiya •  Yuji Nomi





Association

Eiko Kadono (Author) •  Tokiko Kato (Singer) •  John Lasseter (Director) •   Rieko Nakagawa (Author) •  Tatsuo Hori (Author) •  Mamoru Hosoda (Director) •  Yoshie Hotta (Author) •  Yōichi Kotabe (Senior Animator) •  Naohisa Inoue (Artist) •  Keisuke Miyazaki (Son) •  Kenji Miyazawa (Author) •  Yasuji Mori (Animation Director) •  Hideo Ogata (Animage Editor) •  Osamu Sagawa (Friend) •  Ryōtarō Shiba (Author) •  Mamiko Suzuki (Toshio Suzuki's Daughter) •  Mamoru Oshii (Director) •  Yasuo Ōtsuka (Director)





Affiliated Companies

Anime Torotoro •  NHK •  Nippon Animation •  Tokyo Movie Shinsha •  Fuji TV •  Oh! Production •  Pony Canyon •  Tokuma Shoten •  Tokuma International •  Shinchosha Publishing •  Dentsu •  Tohokushinsha Film Corporation •  Mitsubishi •  Studio Kajino •  Studio Ponoc •  Streamline Pictures •  Toei Animation •  Toei Company •  TopCraft •  Shochiku •  Toho •  The Walt Disney Company •  Central Park Media •  Sentai Filmworks •  GKIDS •  Madman Entertainment









 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater