Title: Humbert von Gikkingen
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Humbert_von_Gikkingen
--------------------------------------------------
Humbert von Gikkingen






Japanese name
フンベルト・フォン・ジッキンゲン (Funberuto Fon Jikkingen)


Species
Living statue (Spirit)


Gender
Male


First Appearance
Whisper of the Heart


Second Appearance
The Cat Returns


Role
Main character


Voice actor (Japanese)
Yoshihiko Hakamada (The Cat Returns)Shigeru Tsuyuguchi (Whisper of the Heart)


Voice actor (Disney)
Cary Elwes (Whisper of the Heart and The Cat Returns)




Humbert von Gikkingen, also known simply as The Baron, is a character and protagonist in the 1995 film Whisper of the Heart and the title deuteragonist of the 2002 film The Cat Returns.
He is a (living) statue of an anthropomorphic cat who is fully dressed (including a top hat and shoes). At night, he comes to life. He belongs to the owner of an antique shop named Shirō Nishi.

Contents

1 Appearances

1.1 Whisper of the Heart
1.2 The Cat Returns


2 Ability
3 Voice Actors
4 Name
5 Quotes
6 Gallery
7 References


Appearances[]
Whisper of the Heart[]
In Whisper of the Heart, the Baron was a statue that Shirō Nishi owned. He had a lost female counterpart named Luisa and Shiro was desperate to find her.

The Cat Returns[]
Due to his popularity, Baron was given a bigger role in The Cat Returns, where he, along with Muta, aids Haru Yoshioka as she is unwittingly brought into the Cat Kingdom. The Baron works in the Cat Bureau.

Ability[]
He is a very skilled fighter and a swordman to be able to overwhelm two soldiers at once.
In the book, he is implied to possess a "terrifying ability" which "can destroy Cat Kingdom".
Both Baron and Muta can pronounce Yu (ゆ) sound where cats usually cannot pronounce. Baron can pronounce because he is an artificial being while Muta achieved this due to his longevity. Yuki can also pronounce the sound possibly due to her status as a dead spirit.

Voice Actors[]
In the original Japanese versions of Whisper of the Heart and The Cat Returns, he is voiced by Yoshihiko Hakamada and Shigeru Tsuyuguchi, respectively. Cary Elwes provided the Baron's voice in the English release of The Cat Returns, and reprised his role in Whisper of the Heart. Elwes interpreted The Cat Returns as a prequel to Whisper of the Heart, and chose to play the Baron as much older and more refined.[1]

Name[]
The baron has an Old German name. His first name Humbert came from hun "warrior" and beraht "bright". It also came into use as a surname and as noble rank.
His surname is von Gikkingen. von also implies his noble origin and Gikkingen could be a fictitious location.

Quotes[]
Baron: I'm Baron Humbert von Gikkingen. 
The Person who created me named me so

Gallery[]
The Cat Returns - Official Trailer
References[]


↑ Whisper of the Heart - Behind the Microphone. DVD Extra


This article is a stub. You can help Ghibli Wiki by  expanding it.