Title: Isao Takahata
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Isao_Takahata
--------------------------------------------------
Isao Takahata






Native name
高畑 勲


Born
October 29, 1935Ujiyamada, Japan


Died
April 5, 2018 (aged 82)Tokyo, Japan


Cause of death
Lung cancer


Nationality
Japanese


Education
University of Tokyo


Occupation (s)
Film director •  screenwriter •  producer


Years active
1961–2018


Isao Takahata (高畑 勲 , Takahata Isao) was a Japanese film director, animation director, producer and translator. Born on October 29, 1935, at Ise, Mie, Japan, he passed away on April 5, 2018. He was a long-term colleague of Hayao Miyazaki and co-founder of Studio Ghibli. He had been a lecturer at Nihon University College of Art, a senior researcher at the Graduate School of Humanities, Gakushuin University and received the Purple Ribbon Award. 
His five animated films at Studio Ghibli spanned a remarkable range of genres: war-film Grave of the Fireflies (1988), romantic drama Only Yesterday (1991), comedy My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999), ecological adventure Pom Poko (1994), and The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2014). Grave of the Fireflies received critical acclaim for its emotional impact and anti-war themes, and is considered the film that established the international esteem of Studio Ghibli. He produced an outline for another war film in 1989, Border 1939, but it was cancelled before entering production. He was amazing at capturing the audiences feelings and emotions.
He studied at Sophia University and graduated from the University of Tokyo with a degree in French literature course in 1959. Takahata joined the newly created Tōei Dōga animation company (Toei Animation) where a short time later he met Miyazaki, and also directed his first feature film Hols: Prince of the Sun. Ostracized within the company after the financial failure of the film (despite its artistic success), he and Miyazaki left in order to work together, and collaborated on many other films. Unlike most anime directors, Takahata never worked as an animator before becoming a full-fledged director.
According to Hayao Miyazaki, "Music and study are his hobbies". He was born in the same town as fellow director Kon Ichikawa, while Japanese film giant Yasujiro Ozu was raised by his father in nearby Matsusaka.

Contents

1 Career
2 Influences and style
3 Works

3.1 TV
3.2 Movies
3.3 Translator and Director of Japanese Dubs / Subtitles for Ghibli Museum Library films

3.3.1 Films by Michel Ocelot




4 References and Notes
5 External links


Career[]
Takahata was originally intrigued by animation after having seen the French animated cartoon feature Le Roi et l'oiseau (The King and the Mockingbird) based on the fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen. He was impressed by the film, asking "Can these kind of things be done by animation?".
While he was job hunting at his university, Takahata was tempted to join Toei Animation by a friend who knew the company wanted an assistant director at the time. For fun he took the company's entrance examination as he had been originally interested in animation. When he was notified of the informal decision, he joined the company.
The reason he decided to join the company was his thought that "If it was animation, I can be something interesting, too." However, there were more than ten people joining the company that same year, two recruited by Toei Animation side recruited and the surplus workers sent by Toei head office. Because of the competition, he had a hard time achieving the status of director.

    Takahata during production of Hols: Prince of the Sun  
Takahata finally directed his first film after he was recommended for the spot by Yasuo Ōtsuka, who was both his and Hayao Miyazaki's instructor. His directorial debut was Hols: Prince of the Sun. Hols was a failure in the commercial sense. He was among the production team deemed responsible for the failure, and was accordingly demoted. He also had difficulty making a new film as the remaining staff members who had not been demoted for Hols were working on a different Toei film.
In 1971, in order to make the animated feature Pippi Longstocking, Takahata left Toei Animation with Yoichi Kotabe and Hayao Miyazaki and transferred to A production (present: SHIN-EI ANIMATION Co., Ltd.)”, an animation studio founded by his former superior, Daikichiro Kusube (楠部大吉郎, くすべ だいきちろう) They travelled to Sweden to acquire the animation rights and to hunt for locations, only to be turned away at the door by author Astrid Lindgren. Though their plan was frustrated, Miyazaki found inspiration in the fortified town of Visby, and would later set both Stockholm and Visby as the stage of Kiki's Delivery Service.
In 1971, Takahata and Miyazaki requested to direct episodes seven and onwards of the first Arsene Lupin III TV series anime,[1] due to the low ratings and, for the time, exceptionally high levels of sex and violence in the initial episodes directed by Masaaki Osumi.[2] Since the animation director was Yasuo Ōtsuka, an old acquaintance, they accepted the offer under the condition that "the names of the two people were not released, and direction was credited only to 'A production directors group.'" Unlike Miyazaki, he did not participate in the second series, though his directing in the original was well received.
Later in 1971 Zuiyo Enterprise invited Takahata, Kotabe and Miyazaki to direct an animated series of the novel Heidi and all three of them took the offer. The result was Heidi, Girl of the Alps. Afterwards, when the production section of Zuiyo was established as a subsidiary company of the animated cartoon production of Zuiyo Eizo (present: Nippon Animation), they both joined the company. On the picture side, animators drew carefully the nature of Europe and a change of season, and an everyday life of people by location hunting to Switzerland in all staff. On the other hand, on the story side, Takahata made the animation version easy to accept by thinning a Christian element of the original besides the earnest Christian (especially, in the latter half).
In the case of 3000 Leagues in Search of Mother, the summary of the story followed the original, but he created many episodes and original characters because it was the story that totally did not reach 100 pages. And, he expressed the protagonist Marco as a boy of the independent spirit that did not flatter the adult too much, and adults as existence that committed the crime even if they were comparison good men. He brought the world of this anime close to the reality or more by doing so. However, Kotabe and Miyazaki felt frustration for his direction that did not let them feel pleasure even if they drew it, and they left Takahata one after the other.
In Anne of Green Gables, Takahata directed it along the original basically, but he was able to deepen an impression about Marilla and Ann by describing it as the para-parenthood which was heavier than the original.
In Jarinko Chie, じゃりん子チエ (meaning of Chie the Brat) in 1981, Yasuo Otsuka who belonged to Tokyo Movie Shinsha / Telecom Animation Film Co., Ltd. offered to Miyazaki, a colleague of Telecom, to make this comic an animated cartoon, but he refused. Therefore, Otsuka consulted Takahata, but he also expressed disapproval first. However, Takahata who had really visited Osaka which was the stage of this story felt that the world drawn on the comic was actually there. He took the request, left Nippon Animation which was on the register, and moved to Telecom. This work which paired again with Yasuo Otsuka and Yoichi Kotabe of the old acquaintance was praised and settled for a TV animation series because it got a favorable reception, and Takahata became the chief director.
In 1982, Takahata was elected the director of Little Nemo that was the work that tried to be produced so that Telecom may advance to the United States. With Miyazaki and Otsuka, who entered Telecom earlier, Takahata went to America, but the discord by the Japan-U.S. difference of the technique in the production of animation took place between the Japan side staff and the producer of the American side, Gary Kurtz (known as the producer of Star Wars). After all, Takahata would resign the direction, and also left Telecom. Miyazaki and others followed him. On the other hand, the cultural exchange was born between Japanese animator and seniors of Disney who had been cooperating in this project.
In 1982, Miyazaki then began developing his own manga, Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind, and directing its 1984 film adaption, which also was commercially and critically successful. Miyazaki approached Takahata with the idea of co-founding their own animation studio based on the success of Nausicaä; Studio Ghibli was subsequently formed in 1985 by Miyazaki, Takahata, and Miyazaki's collaborators Toshio Suzuki and Yasuyoshi Tokuma.
The studio primarily released animated feature films that were directed by Miyazaki, with Takahata serving as producer or in other roles. Takahata did direct several Studio Ghibli films as well. His first, Grave of the Fireflies, released in 1988, was based on the semi-autobiographical short story of the same name written by Akiyuki Nosaka, but Takahata was also partially inspired by his own experiences from the bombing of Okayama City. Grave of the Fireflies received critical acclaim for its emotional impact and anti-war themes, and is considered the film that established the international esteem of Studio Ghibli. Other Ghibli films which Takahata served as director included Only Yesterday (1991), Pom Poko (1994) and My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999). In addition to directing and producing, he also served as music director for Miyazaki's film adaptation of Kiki's Delivery Service (1989).
Takahata announced that he would direct one last film for Studio Ghibli, The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (Kaguya-hime no Monogatari, 2013). "Someday we should make a Japanese Heidi", Takahata and Miyazaki had both agreed after making Heidi noting its similarities to the Princess Kaguya story. Heidi's carefree depiction, Takahata had told one journalist, "stems from my ideal image of what a child should be like". When the film arrived in Western markets the following year, it was nominated for the Best Animated Feature at the 87th Academy Awards. Takahata continued to work at Ghibli, serving as an artistic producer for The Red Turtle (2016), the first feature film of Dutch animator and director Michaël Dudok de Wit in collaboration with Ghibli. The film premiered in September 2016.
Takahata had been diagnosed with lung cancer, and died on April 5, 2018, at a hospital in Tokyo, at the age of 82. On May 15, 2018, a farewell ceremony for Takahata was held at the Ghibli Museum in Tokyo. Hayao Miyazaki publicly spoke for the first time about Takahata's death, saying "I was convinced that Paku-san [Takahata's nickname] would live to be 95 years old, but he unfortunately passed away. It makes me think my time is also limited...Thank you, Paku-san."

Influences and style[]
Takahata has been influenced by Italian neorealism, Jacques Prévert, and French New Wave films during the 1960s. The Bicycle Thief has been cited as specifically influencing 3000 Leagues in Search of Mother. These influences make Takahata's work different from most animation, which focus on fantasy. His films, by contrast, are realistic with expressionistic overtones.
Neo-realism's influence on his film is evident in the amount of attention to detail he takes in displaying everyday mundane events. Entire episodes of his early TV shows were devoted to looking at events such as going to church every week, having a job cleaning out bottles, or detailing the work farmers do out in fields. All of these events are shown in meticulous detail and often form a major part of his work. With the exception of Horus: Prince of the Sun (a Disney-esque musical with darker and more political overtones), Pom Poko (an environmentalist film about magical tanuki trying to save their land), and Gauche the Cellist (a film about a struggling cellist who is helped by talking forest animals), the majority of his works are dramas set in mostly realistic environments.
One of Takahatas' most praised films is Omohide Poro Poro (literally, 'Memories Like Falling Raindrops'). The film was released in 1991 in Japan to critical acclaim, and was re-titled as Only Yesterday for release to English-speaking audiences. A film aimed squarely at an adult audience, Omohide Poro Poro revolves around Taeko, a single woman working a desk job in Tokyo, who takes her annual vacation in the countryside with the family of her sister in-law to work as a farmhand. During her holiday, Taeko finds herself looking back nostalgically at her youth as a schoolgirl growing up in 1966, while simultaneously attempting to resolve her current issues with love and career.
The expressionistic influences in Takahata's work are usually marked by scenes where a character's imagination comes to life on screen. For instance, in Omohide Poro Poro, after Taeko encounters her first love she, defying gravity, runs up into and floats through the red-colored sky. The scene ends with her slowly gliding into bed and then cuts to an outside shot of her house where a giant heart emerges from her window. These expressionistic sequences run counter to Takahata's realistic storyline and animation, but are consciously used by the director to transition back and forth from realism to the unreal world of animated fantasy, thereby further enhancing the character. These scenes can be found to some degree in all of Takahata's work, beginning with the "forest of delusion" sequence in Horus: Prince of the Sun.
Takahata's films had a major influence on Hayao Miyazaki, prompting animator Yasuo Ōtsuka to say that Miyazaki gets his sense of social responsibility from Takahata and that without Takahata, Miyazaki would probably just be interested in comic book stuff.[3] As with Miyazaki, Takahata and Michel Ocelot are great admirers of each other's work. Ocelot names Takahata's Grave of the Fireflies and Pom Poko among his favourite films, as well as adapting and directing the Japanese dubs of his films.

Works[]
TV[]
1963-65 狼少年ケン (Ōkamishōnen Ken) / Ken the Wolf Boy
Adviser, Director of several episodes (episode 6,14,19,24,32,38,45,51,58,66,72,80) (only the 6th episode is "「山下勲」Isao Yamashita" name), storyboard
1965 ハッスルパンチ (Hassuru Panti) / Hustle Punch 
Director of the opening theme
1969-70 ひみつのアッコちゃん(Himitsu no Akko-chan) / Secret Little Akko
Based on the comics for girls by Fujio Akatsuka (赤塚不二夫)
Assistant Director
1968-69 GeGeGe no Kitaro (the first series) / ゲゲゲの鬼太郎 (GeGeGe no Kitarō) / Lowest-of-the-Low Kitarō, Kitarō of GeGeGe
Based on the horror comics by Shigeru Mizuki (水木しげる)
Storyboard / Director （episode 62）
1969-70 もーれつア太郎 (Mōretsu Atarō) / A-tarō the Workaholic
Based on the comedy comics by Fujio Akatsuka (赤塚不二夫)
Storyboard / Director (episode 10,14,36,44,51,59,71,77,90), director of opening theme (episode 70–90)
1971-72 GeGeGe no Kitaro (the second series) / ゲゲゲの鬼太郎 (Gegege no Kitarō)
Storyboard / Director (episode 5), director of opening and ending theme
1971-72 アパッチ野球軍 (Apatchi Yakyūgun) / Apache Baseball Team
Based on the comics by original: "Kobako Hanato (花登筐)" / illustrating: "Sachio Umemoto (梅本さちお)"
Storyboard / Director (episode 2,12,17)
1971 長靴下のピッピ 世界一強い女の子 (Nagakutsushita no Pippi/sekai-ichi tsuyoi on-na-no-ko) / Pippi Longstocking, the Strongest Girl in the World（temporary title）[4]
Chief Director, however, since acquisition of the right to make anime went wrong, this project shifted to the movie “Panda! Go, Panda!”.
1971 Arsene Lupin III (ルパン三世, Rupan Sansei)
Based on the comics by Monkey Punch (モンキー・パンチ)
Correction of direction (Episode 4-12, there is an episode largely changed, and is an episode that was hardly changed) / Director (episode 13-23, direct jointly with Hayao Miyazaki by "A production" name)
1972-73 赤胴鈴之助 (Akadō Suzunosuke) / Red-cuirass Suzu-no-suke
Based on the jidaigeki comics featuring sword fighting by Eiichi Fukui (福井英一) and Thunayoshi Takeuchi (武内つなよし)
Acting chief director
1973-74 荒野の少年イサム (Kouya no Shounen Isamu) / Isamu, Boy in the wilderness
Based on the Western comics by original: "Soji Yamakawa (山川惣治)" / illustrating: "Noboru Kawasaki (川崎のぼる)"
Storyboard (episode 15,18), director (episode 15)
1974 Heidi, Girl of the Alps / (アルプスの少女ハイジ, Arupusu no Shōjo Haiji)
Based on the novel of Johanna Spyri
Chief Director / storyboard (episode 1-3)
1975 A Dog of Flanders / (フランダースの犬, Furandaasu no Inu)
Based on the novel of Ouida
Storyboard (episode 15)
1976 3000 Leagues in Search of Mother / (母をたずねて三千里, Haha wo Tazunete Sanzen-ri)
Based on one episode in the novel Cuore by Edmondo De Amicis
Chief Director, storyboard (episode 1,2,4,5,7)
1977 アルプスの音楽少女 ネッティのふしぎな物語, (Arupusu no Ongaku Shoujo Netti no Fushigi na Monogatari) / The Wonderful Story of Nettie, Musical Girl of the Alps
TV Special; storyboard and director, animated sequences only
1977 シートン動物記 くまの子ジャッキー, (Shiiton Doubutsuki Kuma no Ko Jakkii) / Seton Animal Chronicles: Jacky the Bear Cub
Based on Ernest Thompson Seton’s works
Storyboard (episode 5,8)
1978 ペリーヌ物語, Perrine Monogatari (Periinu Monogatari) / Perrine Story
Based on the French novel, En Famille (meaning is “In Family”) by Hector Malot
Storyboard (episode 3,6)
1978 Future Boy Conan (未来少年コナン, Mirai Shōnen Konan)
Based on post-apocalyptic science fiction novel "The Incredible Tide" written by Alexander Key
Storyboard (episode 7,13,20) / storyboard and director (episode 9, 10 with Hayao Miyazaki)
1979 Anne of Green Gables, (赤毛のアン, Akage no An) / Anne of red hair
Based on the novel by Lucy Maud Montgomery
Chief Director, scriptwriter (episode 1-4,6,8,10,12,13,17,18,20,23,25-44,47-50/ 36 in total), storyboard (episode 1-4,29)
1981-83 じゃりん子チエ (Jarinko Chie) (Chie the Brat)
Based on the downtown humanity comics by Etsumi Haruki はるき悦巳 (circulation is 30 million)
Chief Director, storyboard and director (episode 2･6･11 stories,「武元哲」"Tetsu Takemoto" name 〔originates in the name of father of Chie〕), and original bill for composition of opening theme
Movies[]
1961 The Littlest Warrior (安寿と厨子王丸, Anju to Zushiōmaru）/ Anju and Zushiōmaru, the original is "山椒大夫 Sansho Dayu" of Ougai Mori (森鴎外).
Assistant Director
1962 たのしい文明史 鉄ものがたり (Tanoshii Bunmeishi Tetsu Monogatari) / Interesting history of civilization, Story of Iron
Assistant Director, Script Supervisor
1962 The Little Prince and the Eight-Headed Dragon (わんぱく王子の大蛇退治, Wanpaku Ōji no Orochi Taiji) / Big snake extermination of the naughty royal prince
Assistant Director
1963 暗黒街最大の決闘 (Ankokugai Saidai no Kettō) / The Biggest Duel in the Underworld
Live action, not an anime, temporary transfer
Assistant Director, Film Director is Umetsugu Inoue (井上梅次)
1964/65 狼少年ケン (okami-shonen Ken) / Ken, the wolf-boy
Television series works （episode 14 and episode 72） were released the theater.
1968 Hols: Prince of the Sun (太陽の王子 ホルスの大冒険, Taiyō no Ōji - Horusu no Daibouken) / The great adventure of Hols: Prince of the Sun
Based on "'Sun of CHIKISANI" of the puppet play of Kazuo Fukazawa who used Ainu's tradition as the motif.
Chief Director
1972 Panda! Go,Panda! (パンダ・コパンダ, Panda Kopanda) / Panda and child panda
Chief Director
1973 Panda! Go, Panda! Volume of Rainy Circus (パンダ・コパンダ　雨降りサーカスの巻, Panda Kopanda Amefuri-Saakasu no Maki)
Chief Director
1980 3000 Leagues in Search of Mother / (母をたずねて三千里, Haha wo Tazunete Sanzen-ri)
Edited the TV series again for a movie. original run: July 19, 1980
Supervisor
1981 じゃりン子チエ (Jarinko Chie) / Chie the Brat
Chief Director / scriptwriter (with 城山昇, Noboru Shiroyama)
1982 Gauche the Cellist (セロ弾きのゴーシュ Sero-hiki no Gōshu)
Based on the children's story of Kenji Miyazawa (宮沢賢治)
Chief Director, Scriptwriter
1983 Little Nemo: Adventures in Slumberland / (NEMO/ニモ, Nimo)[5]
Based on the weekly comics of Winsor McKay in the United States
Japan Side Director （Fita on March 12, 1983）　
1984 Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (風の谷のナウシカ, Kaze no Tani no Naushika)[6]
Producer
1986 Castle in the Sky (天空の城ラピュタ, Tenkū no Shiro Rapyuta) / Laputa: Castle in the Sky
Producer
1987 柳川堀割物語 (Yanagawa Horiwari Monogatari) / The Story of Yanagawa's Canals
Chief Director, Scriptwriter, documentary film of culture
1988 Grave of the Fireflies (火垂るの墓, Hotaru no Haka)
Based on the novel of Akiyuki Nosaka (野坂昭如)
Chief Director, Scriptwriter
1989 Kiki's Delivery Service (魔女の宅急便, Majo no Takkyuubin) / Witch's Delivery Service
Based on the Children's literature of Eiko Kadono (角野栄子)
Music Direction
1990 赤毛のアン－グリーンゲイブルズへの道－ (Akage no An – Guriin Geiburuzu eno Michi -) / Anne of red hair, Road to Green Gables
Edited the TV series again for a movie. original run: September, 1990
Direction / Editing
1991 Only Yesterday (おもひでぽろぽろ, Omohide Poro Poro) / Memory like rain (in drops)
Chief Director, scriptwriter, translated lyrics of the theme song
1994 Pom Poko (総天然色漫画映画 平成狸合戦ぽんぽこ, Sou- Tennensyoku Manga Eiga - Heisei Tanuki Gassen Pon Poko) / Total natural colour comic movie - Heisei era raccoon dog battle Pom Poko
Original, Chief Director, Scriptwriter
1999 My Neighbors the Yamadas (ホーホケキョ となりの山田くん, Hōhokekyo Tonari no Yamada-kun)
Based on the caricature of Hisaichi Ishii (いしいひさいち)
Chief Director, Scriptwriter
2003 Winter Days (冬の日, Fuyu no Hi)
He participated in this movie with 35 animation creators in the world
2013 The Tale of the Princess Kaguya
Based on The Tale of the Bamboo Cutter
Chief Director, Scriptwriter
Translator and Director of Japanese Dubs / Subtitles for Ghibli Museum Library films[]
Les Triplettes de Belleville (ベルヴィル・ランデブー Beruviru Randebu)
Le Roi et l'oiseau (王と鳥 Ō to Tori)
Moya Iyubov (春のめざめ Haru no Mezame)
Films by Michel Ocelot[]
Kirikou et la Sorcière (キリクと魔女 Kiriku to Majo)
Princes et princesses (プリンス＆プリンセス, Purinsu ando Purinsesu)
Azur et Asmar (アズールとアスマール, Azūru to Asumāru)
References and Notes[]


↑ Arsene Lupin III // Nausicaa.net

↑ Conversations on Ghibli: Movie Night - Arsene Lupin III 1x01

↑ Ōtsuka Yasuo no Ugokasu Yorokobi DVD. Studio Ghibli. 2004.

↑ This was originally a project for the TV series. To make this work an animated cartoon, three people (Isao Takahata, Hayao Miyazaki, and Yoichi Kotabe) transferred the register from major Toei Animation to A production of the small-scale（at that time）. Director: Isao Takahata, character design / animation director: Yoichi Kotabe, scene setting / screen constitution: Hayao Miyazaki. However, the permission of the author had not been finally granted and the plan were frustrated. ｔherefore the unfinished film was diverted to Panda! Go, Panda!.

↑ He planned to become a supervisor on a Japanese side, but he secedes from the project with Hayao Miyazaki by the dissension with an American side. And, they have resigned "Telecom animation film" of the affiliated company.

↑ When the producer's work was requested, Takahata held the complicated feeling for his working for the movie of Miyazaki who drew pictures for works of Takabata before at first. 
However, he undertook the work finally by the persuasion of Toshio Suzuki, "Do not you help a troubled friend?"


External links[]
Isao Takahata information at nausicaa.net
Isao Takahata GhibliWorld.com: The Ultimate Ghibli Collection Site
Isao Takahata Interview on GhibliWorld.com: a Personal Conversation with Isao Takahata






 V • T • E    Credits





Credits




Founders

Hayao Miyazaki (Director) •  Isao Takahata (Director) •  Toshio Suzuki (Producer) •   Yasuyoshi Tokuma (Executive Producer)





Notable Staff

Steve Alpert (Overseas Promotion Manager) •  Hideaki Anno (Director) •  Masashi Ando (Animator) •  Makiko Futaki (Animator) •  Hitomi Tateno (Animation Check) •  Toru Hara (Producer) •  Takeshi Inamura (Animator) •  Katsuya Kondō (Animation Director) •  Yoshifumi Kondō (Animation Director) •  Koji Hoshino (President) •  Megumi Kagawa (Animator) •  Yoshinori Kanada (Animator) •  Kitarō Kōsaka (Director) •  Kazuo Komatsubara (Art Director) •  Goro Miyazaki (Director) •  Tomomi Mochizuki (Director) •  Hiroyuki Morita (Director)  •  Yoshiyuki Momose (Animation Director) •  Yoshiaki Nishimura (Producer) •  Atsushi Okui (Director of Photography) •  Kazuo Oga (Background Artist) •  Shinsuke Nonaka (Production Affairs Manager) •  Kaoru Mano (Titles) •  Keiko Niwa (Screenwriter) •  Reiko Okuyama (Animator) •  Seiji Okuda (Director) •  Takeshi Seyama (Director) •  Masako Shinohara (Animator) •  Atsushi Takahashi (Storyboard) •  Yohei Takamatsu (Art Director) •  Atsuko Tanaka (Key Animator) •  Yôji Takeshige (Art Director) Kazuhide Tomonaga (Animator) •  Yasuo Uragami (Sound Director) •  Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Sound Director) •  Akihiko Yamashita (Animator Director) •  Michiyo Yasuda (Color Designer) •  Hiromasa Yonebayashi (Director) •  Nizô Yamamoto (Background Artist) •  Kenichi Yoshida (Animator) •  Noboru Yoshida (Art Director) •  Ushiko (Cat)





Music

Joe Hisaishi •  Michio Mamiya •  Yuji Nomi





Association

Eiko Kadono (Author) •  Tokiko Kato (Singer) •  John Lasseter (Director) •   Rieko Nakagawa (Author) •  Tatsuo Hori (Author) •  Mamoru Hosoda (Director) •  Yoshie Hotta (Author) •  Yōichi Kotabe (Senior Animator) •  Naohisa Inoue (Artist) •  Keisuke Miyazaki (Son) •  Kenji Miyazawa (Author) •  Yasuji Mori (Animation Director) •  Hideo Ogata (Animage Editor) •  Osamu Sagawa (Friend) •  Ryōtarō Shiba (Author) •  Mamiko Suzuki (Toshio Suzuki's Daughter) •  Mamoru Oshii (Director) •  Yasuo Ōtsuka (Director)





Affiliated Companies

Anime Torotoro •  NHK •  Nippon Animation •  Tokyo Movie Shinsha •  Fuji TV •  Oh! Production •  Pony Canyon •  Tokuma Shoten •  Tokuma International •  Shinchosha Publishing •  Dentsu •  Tohokushinsha Film Corporation •  Mitsubishi •  Studio Kajino •  Studio Ponoc •  Streamline Pictures •  Toei Animation •  Toei Company •  TopCraft •  Shochiku •  Toho •  The Walt Disney Company •  Central Park Media •  Sentai Filmworks •  GKIDS •  Madman Entertainment









 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater