Title: Ishitsukuri
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Ishitsukuri
--------------------------------------------------
Ishitsukuri






Japanese name
石作皇子 (Ishitsukuri no Miko)


Species
Human


Gender
Male


First Appearance
The Tale of the Princess Kaguya


Role
Supporting character


Voice actor (Japanese)
Takaya Kamikawa


Voice actor (GKIDS)
James Marsden




Ishitsukuri is a prince in the film The Tale of the Princess Kaguya directed by Isao Takahata of Studio Ghibli. He is one of Kaguya's suitors but is rejected after he lies to her.
He is first seen in a royal ceremony in Heian-kyō. At the ceremony, Inbe no Akita describes Kaguya's beauty. Ishitsukuri is enchanted and immediately rides to Miyatsuko's Castle with 4 other noblemen who happened to overhear Akita. At the castle, he sits with the other noblemen in front of Kaguya, who is sitting behind curtains. He likens her to the pricelessness of Lord Buddha's stone begging bowl, attempting to flatter her that way and win her hand. But Kaguya tells them that she will marry them only if they bring the treasures they mentioned. Ishitsukuri is flabbergasted and leaves with the other noblemen.
Three years later he returns to the castle without the promised treasure. He tells Kaguya and her father about his fictional journey to bring back the bowl and how he failed. He then attempts to enchant her with sweet words about his (fictional) love for nature and how they would live in a forest after their marriage, forsaking the cold life of the city. He then sneakily goes to the screen covering Kaguya and yanks it off, hoping for a glimpse. However, he is shocked to find his first wife Kita behind the screen, who had changed places with Kaguya. She denounces him for his unfaithfulness angrily. Ishitsukuri is embarrassed and shocked and leaves promptly, apologising.

Appearance[]
Ishitsukuri is a tall, very handsome young man with a small head. When he is first seen, he sports a pencil moustache, but has it shaved off when he visits Kaguya three years later.