Title: Kayo Horikoshi
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Kayo_Horikoshi
--------------------------------------------------
Kayo Horikoshi






Species
Human


Age
2 (prologue) later 10 end of the film 19


Gender
Female


First Appearance
The Wind Rises


Role
Supporting character


Voice actor (Japanese)
Mirai ShidaMaki Shinta (Child)


Voice actor (Disney)
Mae WhitmanEva Bella (Young)




Kayo Horikoshi (堀越 加代, Horikoshi Kayo) is the sister of Jiro Horikoshi in Studio Ghibli's film The Wind Rises directed by Hayao Miyazaki.

Contents

1 Physical Appearance
2 Personality
3 Plot
4 Voice Acting
5 Fiction and Reality
6 Etymology
7 References


Physical Appearance[]
Kayo has brown hair in a bob haircut and brown eyes. She is often seen wearing a red kimono and carries pink bag.

Personality[]
She praises her older brother to complain about him afterwards. It seems she is a harsh person, but she is caring at heart. She often visits her brother, because he is rarely seen at home. She quickly becomes friends with Naoko Satomi and she visits her frequently. She likes to call people by her pet name. She calls her brother Nini (二兄)) and Naoko with Haru (春)).

Plot[]
She is the younger sister of Jiro. Happy and fun, Kayo first appears when Jiro returns home from school wanting him to play in the backyard. Jiro declines, however, and retreats to his room. Kayo is next seen bothering him in his room bugging him, then joining him to stargaze out on the roof that night. After Jiro leaves for the Royal University of Tokyo, Kayo begins to pursue a career in medicine wanting to become a doctor. 
Kayo also appears at least twice throughout the rest of the film always impatient towards Jiro and his actions for being tardy and forgetful. After Jiro marries Naoto she comes for a visit having just completely medical school.  Kayo also warns Jiro of Naoko's incurable condition of tuberculosis and loves her like a sister and witnesses Naoko's departure before her last goodbye. 

Voice Acting[]
Kayo Horikoshi was portrayed also by Mirai Shida similar as Arrietty from The Secret World of Arrietty. In the 2014 dubbing, she is voiced by Mae Whitman and Eva Bella in the English version.

Fiction and Reality[]
The film is based on Hayao Miyazaki's manga of the same name, that is based on Tatsuo's novel of the same name [1]. 
The real Jiro Horikoshi didn't have a sister and he has an older brother instead [2] while his wife is suffering from tuberculosis.

Etymology[]
The name Kayo means "add, increase" (加) (ka) and "generation" (代) (yo).
Kayo's surname Horikoshi means "moat, ditch, canal" (堀) (hori) and "surpass, cross over, move to, exceed, Vietnam" (越) (koshi).
She shares her surname with Kōhei Horikoshi, the author of My Hero Academia.
References[]


↑ 'The Wind Rises' Director Hayao Miyazaki Talks About His Final Film, The Huffington Post UK, retrieved September 5th, 2014

↑ "The Wind Rises Review". Ian Bailey. Retrieved August 31st, 2014