Title: Kazuhiro Wakabayashi
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Kazuhiro_Wakabayashi
--------------------------------------------------
Kazuhiro Wakabayashi






Native name
若林 和弘


Born
December 20, 1964Tokyo


Nationality
Japanese


Occupation (s)
Sound director


Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (若林 和弘 , Wakabayashi Kazuhiro) is a Japanese sound director formerly belonging to Omnibus Promotion. After becoming a freelancer, he established his own sound/post-production studio, Fonishia, on May 7, 2004. His real name is Kazuhiro Hayashi (林 和弘). He's also a visiting professor at Kyoto Seika University.
A longtime collaborator with Studio Ghibli and Production I.G., he's also worked on series such as Ranma 1/2, The Vision of Escaflowne, Soul Eater, xxxHolic, Squid Girl, Moribito, and The Seven Deadly Sins. He also made a cameo appearance on the 2014 series Shirobako

Contents

1 History

1.1 Early Life
1.2 Career


2 Influential Figures
3 External Links
4 Navigation


History[]
Early Life[]
Born December 20, 1964, in Tokyo. During a lecture at Digital Hollywood University held on May 13, 2015, Wakabayashi explains the origins of his profession, “When I was a student, there weren’t any specialized schools for animation,” he recalls. But on the flip side, anime being a fairly young industry also meant some studios were run rather casually. Being a fan of then-airing comedy anime Urusei Yatsura, Wakabayashi decided to pop into the studio producing the show for a visit.
He turned out to have great timing. Not only did Wakabayashi show up on a day when the staff had enough spare time to show him around, it also turned out they’d just had a part-timer quit, and they offered him a job. The young fan accepted, and went to work helping out with sound recording and other audio-related tasks.
After finishing his education he initially worked as an electronics salesman. However, in his second year on the job he got into a heated argument with his boss. Thankfully, just as Wakabayashi could feel that position had run its course, he was offered another by a contact he'd made while working on Urusei Yatsura, who asked his former coworker to join him at the sound production company where he was currently employed. From then on out, Wakabayashi has been working in anime sound recording and direction.

Career[]
“If Miyazaki is thinking of work, and has to spend longer than is absolutely necessary talking to someone, he gets in a bad mood. If he doesn’t like how something has been drawn, he’ll just grab the animator’s paper and start drawing how he wants things done all over it. If Oshii wants someone to do something differently, he has to talk with him, so he’s get a lot more aptitude for communicating with people in that way than Miyazaki does."
—Kazuhiro Wakabayashi discussing working with Hayao Miyazaki and Mamoru Oshii

    Wakabayashi with Atsuko Tanaka (voice actor of the Major from Ghost in the Shell, not to be confused with the animator of the same name) and Mamoru Oshii.  Over the course of his career, Wakabayashi has served as sound or recording director with Hayao Miyazaki and Mamoru Oshii for the Academy Award-winning Spirited Away, Princess Mononoke, Howl's Moving Castle, and Ghost in the Shell. During the 2015 interview, he explained his duties as sound supervisor, “Most overall directors are so focused on how the show looks, they only have a vague concept of how they want it to sound,” he explained. As such, a sound director will take on duties including auditioning voice talent, coaching them through their lines, creating sound effects, and handling the final mixing of dialogue, music, and sound effects.
When describing how it was working with Miyazaki, he explained he had to work with a larger than normal staff as Miyazaki tended to want things be perfect. For example, even if the same sort of sound, say a bug's legs scurrying across the floor, was called for multiple times, Wakabayashi wouldn't reuse the exact same effect, but would create a new one as many times as needed for a more natural result. Even for something as seemingly simple as a drawer being opened in the enchanted bathhouse where main character Chihiro works, Wakabayashi traveled to an open-air architectural museum in Tokyo with a preserved apothecary filled with similar wooden compartments to record an authentic-sounding effect.

    Wakabayashi had at least ten people working with him on Spirited Away.  "On Spirited Away, for example, we were working with child actors, but they're still actors, so you have to be able to communicate with them and give them direction. But any performer, if you just tell them what they're doing is wrong, they'll start to lose energy and motivation. So I always let my actors know what they're doing right first, and then go on to what we need to fix.”
It can be a difficult job, especially given the rapid pace of TV anime production, in which a new episode is aired each and every week. Oftentimes, Wakabayashi explained, he has to be creating the audio before the art is finished. Sometimes this means working off of rough animation tests that are in black and white or have odd patches of flat color where digital effects are to be added later.
In the most extreme cases, he’s got nothing but a script, making his job even harder since he has to direct voice actors who’re doing their recording without any visual references. There is one upside to this, though. “If both the visuals and audio are done, but there’re out of sync, a decision has to be made as to which one to fix. But if the audio is completed before the visuals, then we can just have the visual staff match up to what we’ve done, and we don’t have to go back and redo our work,” he laughed.

Influential Figures[]
An important connection Wakabayashi made during his days as a part-timer was with Mamoru Oshii, who served as director for the first half of the immensely popular Urusei Yatsura. This would eventually lead to Wakabayashi being tapped for many of Oshii's later projects such as the first Patlabor movie (Wakabayashi's theatrical debut), international hit Ghost in the Shell and its sequel, Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence, and The Sky Crawlers.

External Links[]
Information

 Kazuhiro Wakabayashi on Anime News Network
 Kazuhiro Wakabayashi on Wikipedia
Interview

Kazuhiro Wakabayashi on SoraNews24
Navigation[]






 V • T • E    Credits





Credits




Founders

Hayao Miyazaki (Director) •  Isao Takahata (Director) •  Toshio Suzuki (Producer) •   Yasuyoshi Tokuma (Executive Producer)





Notable Staff

Steve Alpert (Overseas Promotion Manager) •  Hideaki Anno (Director) •  Masashi Ando (Animator) •  Makiko Futaki (Animator) •  Hitomi Tateno (Animation Check) •  Toru Hara (Producer) •  Takeshi Inamura (Animator) •  Katsuya Kondō (Animation Director) •  Yoshifumi Kondō (Animation Director) •  Koji Hoshino (President) •  Megumi Kagawa (Animator) •  Yoshinori Kanada (Animator) •  Kitarō Kōsaka (Director) •  Kazuo Komatsubara (Art Director) •  Goro Miyazaki (Director) •  Tomomi Mochizuki (Director) •  Hiroyuki Morita (Director)  •  Yoshiyuki Momose (Animation Director) •  Yoshiaki Nishimura (Producer) •  Atsushi Okui (Director of Photography) •  Kazuo Oga (Background Artist) •  Shinsuke Nonaka (Production Affairs Manager) •  Kaoru Mano (Titles) •  Keiko Niwa (Screenwriter) •  Reiko Okuyama (Animator) •  Seiji Okuda (Director) •  Takeshi Seyama (Director) •  Masako Shinohara (Animator) •  Atsushi Takahashi (Storyboard) •  Yohei Takamatsu (Art Director) •  Atsuko Tanaka (Key Animator) •  Yôji Takeshige (Art Director) Kazuhide Tomonaga (Animator) •  Yasuo Uragami (Sound Director) •  Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Sound Director) •  Akihiko Yamashita (Animator Director) •  Michiyo Yasuda (Color Designer) •  Hiromasa Yonebayashi (Director) •  Nizô Yamamoto (Background Artist) •  Kenichi Yoshida (Animator) •  Noboru Yoshida (Art Director) •  Ushiko (Cat)





Music

Joe Hisaishi •  Michio Mamiya •  Yuji Nomi





Association

Eiko Kadono (Author) •  Tokiko Kato (Singer) •  John Lasseter (Director) •   Rieko Nakagawa (Author) •  Tatsuo Hori (Author) •  Mamoru Hosoda (Director) •  Yoshie Hotta (Author) •  Yōichi Kotabe (Senior Animator) •  Naohisa Inoue (Artist) •  Keisuke Miyazaki (Son) •  Kenji Miyazawa (Author) •  Yasuji Mori (Animation Director) •  Hideo Ogata (Animage Editor) •  Osamu Sagawa (Friend) •  Ryōtarō Shiba (Author) •  Mamiko Suzuki (Toshio Suzuki's Daughter) •  Mamoru Oshii (Director) •  Yasuo Ōtsuka (Director)





Affiliated Companies

Anime Torotoro •  NHK •  Nippon Animation •  Tokyo Movie Shinsha •  Fuji TV •  Oh! Production •  Pony Canyon •  Tokuma Shoten •  Tokuma International •  Shinchosha Publishing •  Dentsu •  Tohokushinsha Film Corporation •  Mitsubishi •  Studio Kajino •  Studio Ponoc •  Streamline Pictures •  Toei Animation •  Toei Company •  TopCraft •  Shochiku •  Toho •  The Walt Disney Company •  Central Park Media •  Sentai Filmworks •  GKIDS •  Madman Entertainment









 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater