Title: Kiki
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Kiki
--------------------------------------------------
Information


Gallery






Kiki






Japanese name
キキ (Kiki)


Species
Human (Witch)


Age
13 years (film)13-35 years (novels)


Gender
Female


Personality
AdventurerAdorableKindCuriousCuteDramaticIntelligentKind-heartedChildishVery FriendlyPoliteInnocentSweetUpbeat


First Appearance
Kiki's Delivery Service


Role
Main character


Voice actor (Japanese)
Minami Takayama


Voice actor (Streamline)
Lisa Michelson


Voice actor (Disney)
Kirsten Dunst




"Father, Mother, how are you? Jiji and I are both very well. My work's on the right track and I'm confident. It's been hard sometimes, but I love this town."
—Kiki's letter to her parents
Kiki (キキ , Kiki) is the main protagonist of Kiki's Delivery Service. She is a 13-year-old witch-in-training from Karikiya who sets up her own witch delivery service in the seaside town Koriko. She has a cat named Jiji. 
She is also the main protagonist of the series of Kiki novels by Eiko Kadono, where she eventually marries Tombo and they have twins—a daughter, Nini, and a son, Toto. 

Contents

1 Personality
2 Appearance
3 History

3.1 Film
3.2 Novels


4 Behind the Scenes
5 Paraphernalia
6 Relationships
7 Quotes
8 Trivia
9 References


Personality[]
Kiki is strong-willed, leaving her home in Karikiya for a year at 13-years old in order to undergo the training she's required to complete to be a witch. She is very friendly, curious, kind-hearted, sweet and upbeat. However, she is also rather stubborn and proud at times, which is sometimes to her disadvantage. She is very attached to her pet black cat, Jiji, and introduces him as her best friend. Kiki is not particularly popular when she first arrives in Koriko, but gradually makes new friends with her customers and is the town heroine at the end.

Appearance[]
Kiki is a slender thirteen year old girl of average height with straight short dark brown hair in a bob cut which she usually styles using a large, amaranth red bow and has large dark navy blue eyes a small upturned nose and rosy cheeks and very fair skin. She wears a medium-sleeved, dark indigo dress, white undergarments that consist of a tank top and bloomers, and orange flats.
At the beginning, she's dressed in a bright green, short-sleeved dress with a medium turtle-neck and a bright pink apron, long, grey socks that are falling down and the same shoes.
Kiki is not initially pleased with her appearance at the beginning of the film, but later on is told to like herself as a witch by her mother, Kokiri.

History[]
Film[]
Kiki was born in the summer of 1947. She lives with her parents Okino, Kokiri, and pet cat, Jiji, until the night she decides to leave. It is customary for a witch at the age of 13 to spend a year away from home and start training.
One blustery day, Kiki lay idle on a field listening to her dad's radio, when she hears an announcement that the evening would be clear with a beautiful full moon. She rushes home and informs her mother, Kokiri (who is working on a potion), that she plans to leave home that very evening instead of the following month as she had originally planned. As Kiki rushes to her room to pack, Kokiri informs her client Dora of the age-old tradition that 13-year-old witches had to leave home for a year on the night of a full moon to pursue their skill through training. Kokiri is worried about Kiki leaving tonight because she didn't get a chance to learn about her mother's skill making potions and Kiki barely knows how to fly which is one skill every witch trainee needs to know how to do by the time they are thirteen. Ms. Dora assures Kokiri that everyone has their own interest and Kiki could find a skill that is new. As Kiki packs her belongings upstairs, her companion, a talking black cat named Jiji points out they were supposed to wait till next month as they planned and she tells him that if she meets a boy or something else occurs, she would have to extend her stay and not leave at all. Her father, Okino, arrives home and learns of Kiki's plans to depart that night, which cancels their previously planned camping trip that weekend. He begins calling relatives to inform them Kiki is leaving and soon, Kokiri fits Kiki with her purple witch's uniform.

    Citizens of Koriko aren't sure what to make of Kiki.  
That evening, her family and friends gather to send Kiki off. Kokiri gives Kiki her broom, at first Kiki is reluctant to take it as it is too big and she worked on her own broom but her mother assures her this broom guided her to this town and it will guide Kiki. She leaves home with Jiji and her parents and family wishes her well. While having trouble at first with her flying, Kiki heads on her way. Along the way, she encounters a fortune-telling witch who tells her of the challenges she may face when settling in a new town. They part ways as she has completed her one year of training and is returning to her home town but wishes Kiki well. Eventually it starts to rain and soon Kiki and Jiji land in a train's box car where they spend the night in a pile of hay. The next morning, Kiki wakes up as her foot slips through the hay and a group of curious cows accidentally tickle her by licking it, causing the girl to laugh hysterically. After apologizing to the cows for falling asleep in their food, she notices the rain has cleared up and so she flies on her broomstick to the port city of Koriko. The citizens seem unfazed by her arrival though and a police questions her reckless flying but he gets distracted giving Kiki a chance to leave. While trying to find somewhere to live, Kiki is pursued by Tombo, a geeky boy obsessed with aviation who admires her flying ability. Kiki however won't talk to a stranger although she thanks Tombo for getting her out of trouble. After a day of searching for lodging, Kiki soon finds herself at a bakery called Gütiokipänjä owned by Osono, the kindly and heavily pregnant owner, who seems completely overwhelmed by the number of customers. After helping Osono return a pacifier to a baby, the two have a talk and Osono learns that Kiki currently had nowhere to stay. She offers Kiki a small loft over their storage area to stay in and Kiki gratefully accepts.

    Kiki discussing terms with Osono and her new delivery business.  
In exchange for accommodation, Kiki helps Osono, while she helps mind the store. She confesses that her only skill happens to be flying, thus they decide to open a "Witch Delivery Business", delivering goods by broomstick, Osono supports the idea completely. Kiki works hard at the store and soon they get the place all fixed up. Kiki and Jiji go shopping to get some food, since Kiki doesn't have much money at the moment, they can't cook much. One of Osono's regular customers named Maki notices Kiki and asks her to deliver a birthday gift for her nephew Ket. Kiki gladly accepts and before leaving, she is spotted ascending into the air by Tombo, who wishes he could fly like her. 

    Kiki struggles to make her first delivery.  
Unfortunately, her first delivery goes badly as she is caught by a strong gust of wind and loses the black cat toy she is supposed to deliver. The toy fell on a crow's nest. As Kiki attempts to retrieve the toy, she gets attacked by crows, thinking she is trying to steal their eggs. Jiji laments how far the standing of witches have fallen and that crows used to be their retainers. Since Jiji looks so similar to the toy cat, Kiki comes up with the idea of having him pretend to be the toy until she can find the real one. While at the young boy's house, Jiji is under the watchful eye of the family dog, Jeff.
Meanwhile, Kiki finds the toy cat in the cabin of a young painter, Ursula. Noticing that the toy is ripped, Ursula offers to mend it in exchange for Kiki cleaning her floor. Once it is fixed, Ursula returns the doll and Kiki hurries off to save Jiji. They are able to make the switch easily with the help of Jeff and return home. While flying back, Kiki tells Jiji about Ursula and that she wanted Kiki to come visit so she could sketch her sometime.

     Kiki is upset upon realizing Jiji had lost his voice.  
Kiki falls into a slump, as customers for her delivery service slows to a trickle and she spends much of her time watching the store. Kiki reluctantly accepts a party invitation from Tombo and his friends from the Aviation Club. She soon receives two deliveries, the first one is given to the address. Next Kiki arrives at the home of her next delivery appointment, an elderly Madame who had been trying to make a herring and pumpkin potpie for her granddaughter's birthday. When the electric oven doesn't work, Kiki offers Madame and Barsa help with her wood-burning oven in order to make the treat and helps with chores around the house while it bakes (despite being reminded by Jiji about Tombo's party). Madame quickly remembers that her clock runs a few minutes slow which makes Kiki realize she will be late for Tombo's party. The Potpie is ready so Kiki rushes off to deliver it. On route, it begins to rain heavily as she delivers the potpie for Madame's granddaughter. When she arrives to the young girl's house, Kiki is stunned when the girl expresses her loathing of the potpie but accepts the gift reluctantly and shuts the door, Kiki makes her way home in silence through the rain. Exhausted from the journey, soaking wet from the rain, and having missed the party, Kiki soon falls ill with a fever.

     Tombo takes Kiki on a ride on his bike. He's excited for the dirigible that arrived for repairs.  
When she recovers, Osono clandestinely arranges for Kiki to see Tombo again by assigning her a delivery addressed to him. After Kiki apologizes for missing the party, Tombo shows off the new dirigible that arrived in town for repairs. He takes her for a test ride on the flying machine he is working on fashioned from a bicycle. Kiki warms up to Tombo after an exciting ride with him and even though the bike is totaled she and Tombo laugh and soon head down to the shore. After Tombo's friends arrive for a tour of the airship, Tombo tries to introduce Kiki to his friends but she is intimidated by his petty friends, who seem to look down at her. One of the members happens to be the Madam's granddaughter who tells the others that Kiki has a job which some are impressed by. Upset, she walks home in defeat, despite Tombo trying to be kind.

     Ursula shows Kiki her latest creation to cheer her up.  
Kiki becomes depressed especially when discovers she can no longer understand Jiji, who has befriended a pretty white cat living next door. After realizing she can no longer understand him, Kiki discovers that she is also losing her flying ability and witch powers especially since she broke her broom. Because of what's happened, Kiki is forced to suspend her delivery business until she gets back her flying powers. She also tells Tombo over the phone she won't see him anymore out of sadness, Osono becomes worried about her. Kiki has a surprise visit from Ursula at the bakery, who after hearing what happened determines that Kiki's crisis is a form of artist's block and offers her time away at her cabin in order to relax. There, Kiki sees that Ursula was working on her latest painting that it was inspired by her encounter with Kiki. Ursula sketches Kiki who is hesitant but the artist assures her she has a great face and it is definitely worth painting. The two spend time out by the lake, have dinner, and talk. Later that night, Ursula talks about how she had gone through a similar situation. She explains how she started drawing when she was about Kiki's age, she loved painting so much she would end up falling asleep at her esile. Then one day she was unable to paint as her work had become copies of someone else's work and she too fell into a slump. That was then she realized that she had to find her own style in art, which she did and Kiki had inspired her latest work. She suggests that if Kiki can find a new purpose in life, she will regain her powers. Kiki thinking about this story, realizes she was so busy training to become a witch, she never considered why she did this. She does question if finding her inspiration would be worth it, Ursula explains that she almost painting something else over the painting but since it turned out so well she didn't. The two turn off the lights so they can sleep. 

     Kiki bravely rescues Tombo from the falling airship "Spirit of Freedom".  
The following morning, Kiki heads back to town, Osono tells Kiki over the phone that Barsa and Madame have a delivery for Kiki that they want her to come get. Madame personally wanted to thank Kiki for her hard work when she was last at the house and presents a cake she had in gratitude. At the same time, the television reports that the dirigible "The Spirit of Freedom" is set to depart. As the "Seahorse Band" and crowd bid the airship farewell, a sudden gale dislodges the airship's moors and is blown off course, with Tombo hanging from the rope under the airship. The airship flies through town, the police car that was attached to a rope falls into the pool and soon manages to crash into the clock tower and is suspended above the town plaza. Kiki then witnesses the Tombo hanging from one of the drifting vessel's mooring lines. 
As the radio reports that the helium within the dirigible is not likely to explode, Kiki takes a street sweeper's push-broom and regains her flying power and flies towards Tombo. The airship gets caught in the town's clock tower and a buliding across from it. Tombo however, is still in danger as he continues to hang onto the rope under the ship. Kiki flies as fast as she can and, after some initial struggling with keeping the broom in place, manages to rescue Tombo as he slips and falls. The town cheers and everyone witnessing the event is amazed and proud of Kiki. During the celebration, Kiki rejoins with Jiji who hops on her shoulder and Kiki smiles happy to have him back. She regains her confidence and resumes her delivery service. She also joins the aviation club and has not only made lots of friends but also has become a celebrity to many, Osono gave birth to a healthy baby and Jiji has become the father of four kittens. The story ends when Kiki writes a letter home saying that she and Jiji are happy and doing great with her witch skills and even though she feels homesick at times she is confident and loves the town.

Novels[]
 File:Kiki in novels.png  Kiki as she appears in the Japanese novels  
Across the six-volume novel series by Eiko Kadono, Kiki’s history follows a comprehensive trajectory from a thirteen-year-old apprentice to a mature mother in her late thirties. This expanded narrative provides a deeper look into the evolution of her magic and her transition into the adult world, which is portrayed as an episodic journey of self-discovery rather than a single dramatic conflict.

The journey begins with the traditional rite of passage for young witches. At age thirteen, Kiki leaves her parents, Okino and Kokiri, to find a town without a resident witch. She arrives in the seaside town of Koriko with her black cat, Jiji, and establishes her Witch Delivery Business while living in the attic of a bakery owned by Osono. During this initial year, Kiki handles a wide variety of tasks that test her patience and creativity, such as delivering a musical instrument to a concert and a large knitted belly band to a sailor. Unlike other adaptations, the novel depicts Kiki’s challenges as everyday social hurdles and personal insecurities rather than a catastrophic loss of her powers. File:Kiki Book Appearance.png  Kiki as she appears in the English translation of the novels  As Kiki enters her mid-teens and early twenties, the narrative shifts toward the emotional complexities of adolescence and young adulthood. She begins to grapple with feelings of jealousy toward other girls her age and experiences a sense of isolation as the novelty of her magic wears off for the townspeople. During this period, her relationship with Tombo, the boy who shares her fascination with the sky, becomes more central to the story. Their bond is tested by distance when Tombo goes away to school, leading Kiki to navigate long-distance friendship and the slow-burning realization of her romantic feelings for him. These years are marked by Kiki learning that magic is not just a hereditary skill but a state of mind that requires constant nurturing and confidence.
The later stages of Kiki's history bring her story to a full resolution as she transitions into motherhood. After many years of growth and building a life in Koriko, Kiki eventually marries Tombo. They have two children, twins named Nini and Toto. The final volume of the series focuses on the twins as they approach their own thirteenth birthdays. This concluding chapter highlights the generational cycle of the witch tradition, as Kiki must now experience the bittersweet reality of watching her own children prepare to leave home for their own independent journeys. This complete history emphasizes that for Kiki, magic was the vehicle that allowed her to navigate the universal human experiences of growing up, finding love, and raising a family.

Behind the Scenes[]
Kiki was created by author Eiko Kadono and originally appeared as the main protagonist of the author's series of Kiki novels. The first of these, Kiki's Delivery Service, was adapted by Hayao Miyazaki into a Studio Ghibli movie in 1989. While the original novel received many English releases over the following decades, the remaining Kiki novels did not receive English releases until the sequel, Kiki and the New Magic, received one in 2026, which will be followed by English releases for all the remaining Kiki novels.     Kiki in her animated form,  arriving at the coast of Koriko  According to Miyazaki, "Instead of making other people happy, Kiki is the kind of person who ends up relying on others without realizing it. What concerns her the most are her feelings and her happiness. I didn't provide any instructions for the voice actor Minami Takayama, but her performance was astonishingly good. She claimed she could relate to Kiki's feelings."[1]
     Image board of Kiki standing in her bedroom.  "Kiki acts like a child in front of her parents, but when she's alone she has serious thoughts. While she might be blunt toward boys her age, she's respectful toward her seniors-particularly if she admires them. She's not, however, a calculating little girl. Her reactions-whether spontaneous, or simply manners she acquired from her parents-show how dynamic she is.", he added.[2]
Character designer Katsuya Kondō elaborated on her design, "Initially, I followed the original story illustrations and drew Kiki with long hair, but this would have been difficult in terms of animation. Still wanting to be faithful to the original story, I had hair bundled with ribbons to be removed when she was alone in order to convey her dual nature. But this didn't really fit with her character so she ended up having short hair. I wanted her cheeks to be reddish from the start."[3]

Paraphernalia[]
Kiki uses a broomstick which can fly.
She occasionally brings along a radio.
Relationships[]
Jiji (pet/best friend)
Okino (father)
Kokiri (mother)
Tombo (friend)
Ursula (friend)
Dora (knowledge)
Osono (employer/friend)
Senior Witch (friend only in prologue)
Jeff (Friend)
Quotes[]
"So, what'll I do if I wait a month and in the meantime find a nice boyfriend? It'll be too hard to leave then."
"I'm gonna be the very best witch that I can be, Mom. And I know having a good heart is important."
"Thank you for saving me. But I didn't ask for your help. And when you haven't been properly introduced, it's rude to start talking to a girl. Hmph!"
"Without even thinking about it, I used to be able to fly. Now I'm trying to look inside myself and find out how I did it."
"Flying used to be fun until I started doing it for a living."
"Maybe I can stay and find some other nice people who will like me and accept me for who I am."
Trivia[]
     A black-clad witch appears in Whisper of the Heart.  
     Official LINE sticker illustration released by Studio Ghibli, depicting Kiki using a smartphone.  
     Depicting Kiki wearing a traditional kimono. This sticker set was released for a limited time.  
Unlike most lead characters, Kiki was not originally created by Studio Ghibli, having been created by author Eiko Kadono.
According to early concept art, Kiki's appearance was similar to her final appearance, one big difference was her hair which was longer and lighter. Miyazaki was unhappy with this design however and gave the character shorter hair but kept the bow to represent her youth.
In the Streamline dub, Kiki was voiced by Lisa Michelson, who also voiced Satsuki Kusakabe in My Neighbor Totoro.
Kiki was inspired by Astrid Lindgren's Pippi Longstocking.
Kiki also seems to bear a resemblance to Sheeta from Castle in the Sky.
Kiki has a Totoro-like plushie from My Neighbor Totoro.
In the Kirby series, she is the inspiration for an enemy called Keke, who appears to be a fusion of Kiki herself and Jiji.
Kirsten Dunst, who is Kiki's voice actress in the Disney dub, sometimes goes by her character's name on occasion.[citation needed]
Kiki makes a cameo appearance during the "goblin parade" scene in Takahata's Pom Poko, where she is seen flying on her broom.
In later official Studio Ghibli promotional materials—such as illustrated merchandise and LINE stickers—Kiki and other characters are sometimes depicted in situations that do not appear in either the original novel or the film. Examples include illustrations of Kiki using a smartphone or wearing traditional Japanese clothing such as a kimono.
References[]


↑ "The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service", p.28

↑ "The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service", p.46

↑ "The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service", p.32




Kiki's Delivery Service


Characters


Main Cast

Kiki | Jiji


Kiki's Family

Kokiri | Okino


Osono's Family

Osono | Fukuo | Osono's Baby


Citizens of Koriko

Tombo | Ursula | Madame | Barsa | Lily | Maki | Ket | Ket's Mother | Jeff | Clock Tower Caretaker | Madame's Granddaughter | Policeman


Others

Dora | Senior Witch


Miscellaneous


Locations

Okino Residence | Karikiya | Koriko | Gütiokipänjä | Ursula's Log Cabin | Clock Tower (Koriko)


Music

Soundtracks | Rouge no Dengon | Yasashisa Ni Tsutsumareta Nara







 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater