Title: Kujiratori
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Kujiratori
--------------------------------------------------
Whale Hunt




Japanese release poster


Kanji
くじらとり


Rōmaji
Kujira-tori


Directed by
Hayao Miyazaki


Produced by
Toshio Suzuki


Screenplay by
Hayao Miyazaki


Based on
No No Nursery School by Rieko Nakagawa, Yuriko YamawakiKujiratori by Rieko Nakagawa, Yuriko Yamawaki


Music by
Yuji Nomi


Art Directed by
Sayaka Plain


Production
Studio Ghibli


Release date(s)
2001


Running time
16 minutes


Kujiratori (くじらとり, Kujira-tori), or Whale Hunt, is a 16-minute animated film written and directed by Hayao Miyazaki, shown only in the Ghibli Museum in Mitaka, Japan and Cinema Orion in Ghibli Park. It premiered in October 2001.
It is based on the second volume of No-No Nursery School (いやいやえん , Iyaiyaen), a 1962 children's fairy tale written by Rieko Nakagawa, with illustrations by Yuriko Yamawaki and published by Fukuinkan Shoten. The film adaptation tells the story of school children pretending they are building a boat. It is drawn in a different, simpler style compared to other Studio Ghibli films and uses bright pastel colors.[1] Takeshi Inamura served as the film's animation director.
The film was shown at the 2002 New York International Children's Film Festival. It has won the Ōfuji Noburō Award at the Mainichi Film Award in 2001.

Contents

1 Plot
2 Behind the Scenes

2.1 Inspiration
2.2 Collaboration
2.3 Production


3 Source Material
4 Credits
5 References
6 External Links
7 Navigation


Plot[]
    Young Shigeru going to Nursery School and the eventual whale hunt in an imaginary boat made of blocks.  Kujiratori tells the story of children at Tulip Nursery School pretending they are building a boat with blocks, calling it "Elephant and Lion". As imagination replaces reality, and a young boy named Shigeru and his schoolmates load fishing rods and ropes onto the Elephant and Lion, and set out on a whale hunt. The children struggle manning the ship as it floods, and they soon brave a big storm. Suddenly, a gentle whale appears, accompanies them back to land and plays with them. 
They land on the beach and the children, along with the whale, take pictures to commemorate the event. The whale returns to the ocean as the children wave goodbye. Then the fantasy ends and the children are back in their class room.

Behind the Scenes[]
Inspiration[]
    The 2018 NHK special with Hayao Miyazaki and Rieko Nakagawa.  Hayao Miyazaki has been a fan of Rieko Nakagawa ever since he read her story No-No Nursery School (1962) as a student, and ever since has dreamed of adapting her work in animation. In a 2018 NHK interview between Miyazaki and Nakagawa, he recounted, "When I was a student in the early 1960s, No-No Nursery School came out. I thought it was a wonderland, or "a really wonderful thing came out." 
When asked what impressed him about the story, he described how seamless the fantasy was integrated when the nursery transforms into the literal sea, stating, "Hmm ... it's difficult. Because there is a sea in the nursery ... It's not a sea, it's a sea. And the whale is swimming. It connects quite smoothly. When I think about it in theory, I have to think about the mechanism, such as "a different world was connected there," but when Nakagawa takes it, it suddenly becomes the sea."[2]

Collaboration[]
In 1988, Miyazaki befriended and hired Nakagawa, also a known lyricist, to work on his film, My Neighbor Totoro. She worked alongside Joe Hisaishi and wrote the opening theme, Sanpo －Ōpuningu Shudaika (さんぽ －オープニング主題歌－ , Stroll (Opening Theme))". They would also collaborate to create a book to coincide with the opening of “My Neighbor Totoro.” It contained artwork from Miyazaki and poetry by Nakagawa, all inspired by the film.

Production[]
Following the success of Princess Mononoke and prior to the opening of the Ghibli Museum, Miyazaki decided to adapt Reiko Nakagawa's work. He tried his best to faithfully reproduce the atmosphere of her story, adopting a simpler, brighter pastel color-style compared to prior Studio Ghibli films. In the 2018 NHK interview, Miyazaki stated, "I was really worried about how to make Kujiratori into a video."

    Character art for Shigeru and his schoolmates in the film.  During a retrospective talk of Reiko Nakagawa's 1967 work Guri and Gura in 2014, Miyazaki admitted, "It's a wild work, this Kujiratori. I wanted to animate this story when I was trying to make a movie to be screened at the Ghibli Museum. But this was really difficult. The classroom becomes the sea. Finally, the original book does not say that he returned to the classroom from the sea. After thinking about how to end it, we left it as it was. Then Nakagawa (who worked as a Nursery teacher herself) watched the movie and said, "Well, my mothers will come to pick me up and be surprised." It's a book I wrote (laughs). But it's boring to return the sea to the nursery. Even if it's a dream to wake up someday, you don't have to rush to wake up. You don't have to write anything useful or lessons to grow. It was Nakagawa's work that taught me that it was okay."[3]
During the film, the children's imaginary boat, which is made of blocks, starts to leak. Miyazaki explains, "In the movie, I don't explain "why it becomes the sea" so much. When a child plays and a ship made of building blocks shifts a little, he says, "Water leaks from there." Then, it really leaks."
When remarking on the success of his adaptation, Miyazaki said, "I was really happy. I think I can do better, but I think that's the limit. However, if this is the case, I think that even if the children read it and then watch the movie, it wouldn't hit in their heads without damaging Nakagawa's original work."

Source Material[]
     No-No Nursery School by Reiko Nakagawa and Yuriko Yamawaki and the brochure for the film.  It was the late 1950s during the postwar years, and Reiko Nakagawa, a Nursery teacher in Komazawa Park, felt there weren't many good children's books to read aloud to charges. Her first published work, No-No Nursery School (“Iyaiyaen,” 1962), roughly based on her experiences as a teacher and illustrated by her sister, Yuriko Yamawaki, became a runaway success. 
It received the Minister of Health and Welfare Award, NHK Children's Literature Encouragement Award, Sankei Children's Book Culture Award / Noma Children's Literature Award Recommended Work Award Awards, Must-read books selected by the National School Library Association.

Credits[]


Credit

Staff


Director, Screenplay
Hayao Miyazaki


Animation Director
Takeshi Inamura


Key Animation
Akiko Yamaguchi, Atsushi Tamura, Victory Nakamura, Mariko Matsuo, Kenichi Konishi, Kenichi Konishi, Shinji Hashimoto, Etsu Tomita, Nagisa Miyazaki, Atsushi Yamagata, Masaaki Yuasa


In-between Animation
Masaya Saito, Alexandra Waerauf, Shuko Sasakawa, Mitsuru Noguchi, Mayuko Murota, Mizue Sashihara, Katsura Hoshino, Suzuko Mano, Mayumi Omura, Seiko Nishito, Sumie Toki, Yayoi Toki, Kiyoko Makita, Yukari Yamaura, Kumiko Tanihira, Kumiko Hara


Background Artists
Yoji Takeshige, Hiroaki Sasaki, Kikuyo Yano


Color Design
Michiyo Yasuda


Art Director
Yoji Takeshige, Noboru Yoshida


Animation Cooperation
Studio Cockpit, Anime Toro Toro, Group Acorn


Producer
Toshio Suzuki


Music
Yuji Nomi


References[]

↑ Official Ghibli's shorts list.

↑ Radio Midnight Flight "Mama ☆ Midnight Flight Returns! Special Dialogue: Hayao Miyazaki x Rieko Nakagawa". December 1, 2018.

↑ Casa Brutus interview with Reiko Nakagawa.


External Links[]
Official

Kujiratori on Ghibli Museum.
Information

 Kujiratori on Anime News Network
 The Wale Hunt at the Internet Movie Database  
Kujiratori on Wikipedia
Navigation[]






 V • T • E    Credits





Credits




Founders

Hayao Miyazaki (Director) •  Isao Takahata (Director) •  Toshio Suzuki (Producer) •   Yasuyoshi Tokuma (Executive Producer)





Notable Staff

Steve Alpert (Overseas Promotion Manager) •  Hideaki Anno (Director) •  Masashi Ando (Animator) •  Makiko Futaki (Animator) •  Hitomi Tateno (Animation Check) •  Toru Hara (Producer) •  Takeshi Inamura (Animator) •  Katsuya Kondō (Animation Director) •  Yoshifumi Kondō (Animation Director) •  Koji Hoshino (President) •  Megumi Kagawa (Animator) •  Yoshinori Kanada (Animator) •  Kitarō Kōsaka (Director) •  Kazuo Komatsubara (Art Director) •  Goro Miyazaki (Director) •  Tomomi Mochizuki (Director) •  Hiroyuki Morita (Director)  •  Yoshiyuki Momose (Animation Director) •  Yoshiaki Nishimura (Producer) •  Atsushi Okui (Director of Photography) •  Kazuo Oga (Background Artist) •  Shinsuke Nonaka (Production Affairs Manager) •  Kaoru Mano (Titles) •  Keiko Niwa (Screenwriter) •  Reiko Okuyama (Animator) •  Seiji Okuda (Director) •  Takeshi Seyama (Director) •  Masako Shinohara (Animator) •  Atsushi Takahashi (Storyboard) •  Yohei Takamatsu (Art Director) •  Atsuko Tanaka (Key Animator) •  Yôji Takeshige (Art Director) Kazuhide Tomonaga (Animator) •  Yasuo Uragami (Sound Director) •  Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Sound Director) •  Akihiko Yamashita (Animator Director) •  Michiyo Yasuda (Color Designer) •  Hiromasa Yonebayashi (Director) •  Nizô Yamamoto (Background Artist) •  Kenichi Yoshida (Animator) •  Noboru Yoshida (Art Director) •  Ushiko (Cat)





Music

Joe Hisaishi •  Michio Mamiya •  Yuji Nomi





Association

Eiko Kadono (Author) •  Tokiko Kato (Singer) •  John Lasseter (Director) •   Rieko Nakagawa (Author) •  Tatsuo Hori (Author) •  Mamoru Hosoda (Director) •  Yoshie Hotta (Author) •  Yōichi Kotabe (Senior Animator) •  Naohisa Inoue (Artist) •  Keisuke Miyazaki (Son) •  Kenji Miyazawa (Author) •  Yasuji Mori (Animation Director) •  Hideo Ogata (Animage Editor) •  Osamu Sagawa (Friend) •  Ryōtarō Shiba (Author) •  Mamiko Suzuki (Toshio Suzuki's Daughter) •  Mamoru Oshii (Director) •  Yasuo Ōtsuka (Director)





Affiliated Companies

Anime Torotoro •  NHK •  Nippon Animation •  Tokyo Movie Shinsha •  Fuji TV •  Oh! Production •  Pony Canyon •  Tokuma Shoten •  Tokuma International •  Shinchosha Publishing •  Dentsu •  Tohokushinsha Film Corporation •  Mitsubishi •  Studio Kajino •  Studio Ponoc •  Streamline Pictures •  Toei Animation •  Toei Company •  TopCraft •  Shochiku •  Toho •  The Walt Disney Company •  Central Park Media •  Sentai Filmworks •  GKIDS •  Madman Entertainment









 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater