Title: Kushana
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Kushana
--------------------------------------------------
Kushana






Japanese name
クシャナ (Kushana)


Species
New Human


Age
25 years[1]


Gender
Female


First Appearance
Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind


Role
Main character


Voice actor (Japanese)
Yoshiko Sakaribara


Voice actor (English)
Linda Gary (Queen Salena) †


Voice actor (Disney)
Uma Thurman




Kushana is an Imperial Princess of Torumekia and the step-daughter of the Vai Emperor, and the main antagonist of Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind. While she is not presented as completely evil, she is definitely an antagonist.Torumekian Army
Despite her ferocity in battle, Kushana has a nobility of character that earns her the respect of both Nausicaä and Master Yupa. While she admires Nausicaä's pacifist ideals, she sees herself as inescapably destined to walk the path of bloodshed.  
She cares deeply for the men under her command, but is portrayed as brutal and harsh to her enemies. 

Contents

1 Personality
2 Appearance
3 Equipment
4 Biography

4.1 Early Life
4.2 Pejitei
4.3 The Acid Lakes
4.4 Sapata
4.5 The Fungus


5 Anime
6 Trivia
7 See Also
8 References
9 Navigation


Personality[]
Despite her ferocity in battle, Kushana has a nobility of character that earns her the respect of both Nausicaa and Master Yupa. While she admires Nausicaa's pacifist ideals, she sees herself as inescapably destined to walk the path of bloodshed. She cares deeply for the men under her command, but is portrayed as brutal and harsh to her enemies.
Just like Nausicaa, she was born into a man's world. She had to survive by, in a sense, becoming a man; she wore armor, commanded fleets, etc. She had to make tough decisions, and had to be very cautious of her surroundings. Because she knew, behind everything, her brothers were out to kill her and take over the throne.
While seemingly cold-hearted at first, the reader's approach to the character becomes more emotional as we delve into the plot. We find out that the emperor who succeeded Kushana's father poisoned Kushana's mother, making her insane. People took Kushana away, and left her mother; alone, with only a rag doll. In her insanity, Kushana's mother thought that this rag doll was her daughter. This part of the story once again reflects upon Greek and Italian mythology, where many gods and other characters killed their children in fits of temporary insanity.

Appearance[]
Kushana has ginger hair with a crown she has blue eyes, blue earrings, and she wears knight armor. She later appears without her armor, revealing white dress and her mechanical arm and legs when she escapes from captivity.
Kushana's Crown has a snake with two heads and a looped body.[2] Her Flag has two snakes intertwined in the shape of U^U [3] and her armor's bason has single headed undulating snake.[4]

Equipment[]
Kushana carries an over-under two-barreled handgun. It is unknown whether it only has two shots or is some form of semi-automatic pistol.

Biography[]
Early Life[]
Kushana is the child of the predecessor to The Vai Emperor, who married her mother after coming to power. She grew up closer to her mother, due to the cruel and strict lifestyle of the Torumekian Royal Family with her relations to the previous king being a major source of their scorn. Her mother suffered and ended up in a mentally unstable state, for which Kushana partly blames her half-brothers due to a poison that she was tricked into ingesting. She is trained as a military general and inspires great loyalty. She trained the Torumekian Third Army personally and is very devoted to her men.

Pejitei[]
When a God Warrior is found in Pejitei Kushana is sent to invade the nominal Torumekian ally. She successfully captures their city and secures the God Warrior, though Princess Rastel escaped with the control stone, which can control the dormant Warrior. While she is in Pejitei, Kurotowa, a new advisor sent by her father, arrives. After initially trying to have him assassinated, Kushana learns to value his knowledge in strategy, though she still questions his true loyalty. Her brothers task her with finding the control stone, which Kushana tracks to the Valley of the Wind. There, she meets Nausicaä, who tries to get Kushana to leave the valley.

The Acid Lakes[]
Torumekia declares war on the Dorok Principalities and Kushana invokes the ancient treaties by which the Periphery states are bound. The Valley of the Wind send their gunship to an aerial rendezvous point, where they are joined by other Periphery state ships. Kushana plans to fly across the Sea of Corruption into Dorok lands to join the war, as ordered by her brothers. Near the rendezvous point, however, their fleet is attacked by Asbel of Pejitei. Eventually Asbel is shot down by Kurotowa, but not before Kushana loses several ships, including the Valley of the Wind ships.
Kushana lands at the Acid Lakes and sets up base. The Valley of the Wind brig rejoins them after being rescued by Nausciaä, but Nausicaä herself is still missing. Kushana grants Mito permission to look for her. Unbeknownst to her, Kushana's brothers betrayed her position to the Doroks and a Dorok attack was imminent. A Dorok fleet appears and engages Kushana's forces. She soon suspects a trap however, since they are too weak to attack in broad daylight. Nausicaä, who escapes from captivity by the Mani Tribe, discovers that the Doroks are leading thousands of Ohmus to the Acid Lakes. Most of Kushana's forces are destroyed, but Kushana herself manages to escape.

Sapata[]
After the Battle, the Valley Gunship returns to the Valley of the Wind, but Nausicaä decides to accompany Kushana on her invasion of the Dorok principalities. Kushana crosses the southern part of the Sea of Corruption and enters Dorok land. She flies over the province of Sapata, where she seeks out the Torumekian Third Army. They pass a village where disagreements arise, resulting in a confrontation between Kurotowa and Kushana. Kushana says that Kurotowa is on a mission from her brothers to have Kushana die and find the control stone. Kurotowa then decides to switch sides, as he guessed they would have killed him anyway after the mission, as he is not nobility. He analyzes correctly that she is trying to find her Third Army to overthrow her father and offers to help.
Kushana finds her Third Army almost entirely destroyed as they were deployed in dangerous positions on purpose by her brothers. The Dorok armies have overwhelmed Torumekian troops due to their use of miasma as a bio-weapon. She picks up the last two survivors from one of the divisions and heads to the Sapata city-fortress where one of her brothers' generals is under siege. The general is about to flee when Kushana arrives. She is welcomed by her former General Senei. Nausicaä asks Kushana to release prisoners she has taken and she agrees if Nausicaä fights for her in battle. They go to battle and manage to pass enemy lines, though they are eventually beaten back. Nausicaä then releases the prisoners and leaves Sapata.

The Fungus[]
The Dorok forces are forced to retreat to make way for Mirapula's new bioweapon. The Dorok soldiers release miasma on the unprepared Torumekians and kill most of them. Kushana manages to survive, but one of her brother is killed by insects. She is surprised how easily he died, since she has been using the hatred of her brothers as a motivation for a long time. She surprises herself by singing in the trenches.

Anime[]
In the anime, she lost one of her arms as a child during an Ohmu attack and is driven by a desire for revenge against the giant insects. She intends to destroy the Sea of Corruption by any means necessary. While she is not presented as completely evil, she is definitely an antagonist. Her motive is that when she was a child she was attacked by an Omhu and her arm and both legs had to be amputated. She had to grow up with a metal shell as an arm. Although at times she appears to be mean and cruel, she is actually very afraid. She puts up a strong front in order to hide her fears and actually has a very caring heart. As the story unfolds she changes into a gentle and more caring person. When Mito returns to the Valley, she orders her troops to stop firing at him because she was worried about Nausicaä's safety. So even though she led the invasion of the Valley, Kushana is not a hateful character. Her plight generates sympathy, and her goals and ideals are understandable. She could not have predicted the results of her actions and did not do anything out of cruelty.

Trivia[]
Hideaki Anno, who worked on the film of Nausicaä and later became known for Neon Genesis Evangelion, had planned to do a manga side story centered around Kushana's military exploits, but Hayao Miyazaki refused him permission, believing that Anno would only use her to "play war games".
Susan J. Napier and Patrick Drazen note a parallel between the character of Kushana, the rival warrior princess, and that of Nausicaä - Napier describes Kushana as Nausicaä's "shadow", noting that Kushana is not shown with any "alleviating, 'feminine' virtues" as Nausicaä is, but that they share the same tactical brilliance. Drazen describes this as a "feminine duality". Miyazaki has described the two characters as being "two sides of the same coin", but Kushana having "deep, physical wounds".
See Also[]
Lady Eboshi - a character with various similarities and contrasting depictions, such as being a female main antagonist who is a military leader who has a male subordinate, challenging society, had a tragic past, used deadly firearms against a large herd of animals, lacking a body part, etc..
References[]


↑ 『ロマンアルバム 映画 風の谷のナウシカ GUIDE BOOK 復刻版』　徳間書店、2010年、pp.34 - 35。

↑ DE 1 pg 71

↑ DE 1 pg 70

↑ DE 1 pg 43


Navigation[]


Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind


Characters


Main Cast

Nausicaä | Teto | Gol & Gikuri


Valley of the Wind

Jihl | Yupa | Mito | Obaba


Pejite

Mayor of Pejite | Asbel | Lastelle | Asbel & Lastelle's Mother | Pejite Girl


Torumekian Empire

Kushana | Kurotowa


Miscellaneous


Locations

Valley of the Wind | Nausicaä's Tower | Pejite | Toxic Jungle | Torumekia


Mechanical Designs

Dreadnought | God Warrior | Mehve


Creatures

Fox Squirrel | Hebikera | Ohmu


Glossary

Miasma | Seven Days of Fire








 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater