Title: Lasseter-San, Arigato!
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Lasseter-San,_Arigato!
--------------------------------------------------
Lasseter-San, Arigato!






Directed by
Takashi Seki


Production
Studio GhibliThe Walt Disney Company


Distributed by
Buena Vista Home Entertainment


Release date(s)
November 19, 2003 (Japan)


Running time
155 minutes


Lasseter-san, Arigato! (ラセターさん、ありがとう , Rasetā-san, Arigatō) is a feature-length documentary depicting the September 2002 trip of the co-founders of Studio Ghibli to promote Spirited Away in North America.
It was originally made as a private "thank-you note" from Ghibli to John Lasseter for his role in having Spirited Away released theatrically by Disney. The film appears similar to a private documentary told through first-person, possibly written from Toshio Suzuki's perspective. The film opens to a private screening of Mei and the Kittenbus being held for the Pixar staff, then moves to a tour of the Pixar animation studio and later, even Lasseter's home.
Following its release, between May 2004 and May 2005, the Ghibli Museum hosted a temporary exhibition dedicated to Pixar, featuring films such as Toy Story, A Bug's Life, Monsters Inc. and Finding Nemo.

Contents

1 Synopsis
2 Trivia
3 References
4 External Links
5 Navigation


Synopsis[]
Lasseter-San, Arigato! is a video documentation of a trip by Hayao Miyazaki, Toshio Suzuki and several Studio Ghibli employees to promote the movie Sen to Chihiro no Kamikakushi or Spirited Away and its theatrical release in North America. The film opens to a private screening of Mei and the Kittenbus at Pixar animation studios, with John Lasseter in attendance. It then cuts to Miyazaki and Suzuki attending a press junket at the Toronto Film Festival, whether they discuss with Lasseter how they would go about promoting Spirited Away in theaters. Lasseter suggests a limited theatrical run in hopes that the film would spread through word-of-mouth, rather than a huge media blitz whose buzz would disappear after the first week. 

    Hayao Miyazaki and John Lasseter at the Pixar campus.  They then discuss their various philosophies in creating film. Miyazaki says that while he relates a developing story, he realizes the gaps as he goes along. Lasseter contrasts this with the more collaborative, co-operative style of working style at Pixar, noting that a story segment can be re-worked up to 30 times before it is ever animated. Miyazaki says that once production has begun, everyone is so busy that they have no time to consider any new ideas that he discovers, and then he feels lonely and frustrated. He feels there must be a "best" method, but whether that would produce the perfect movie is another question.[1]
A day later, Suzuki notes that Miyazaki was asked by Disney to sit through sixty-five interviews, however, Miyazaki was able to negotiate it down to forty. After the scheduled interviews, one with Lasseter himself, Miyazaki feels pleased with himself; saying he still has the stamina to do such things. Miyazaki then attends the film's premiere in El Capitan theatre in Los Angeles, and conducts a Q&A with the audience. Here, Miyazaki jokes that the animators at Studio Ghibli have six arms, just like Kamaji.

    Lasseter singing the theme to My Neighbor Totoro with Miyazaki.  A welcome lunch is held at Walt Disney Studios, where Suzuki is asked, "Why did you decide to team up with Disney?". He notes that Disney was the only studio that not only wanted to distribute Ghibli's entire output (rather than just certain titles), but also did not want to cut the films' length. Suzuki also felt that Disney's tradition (of traditional cel-animation) was still alive. The lunch was notably low-key due to the meal taking place a day after the attacks at the World Trade Center.
The film highlights John Lasseter's admiration of Miyazaki, who first encountered his work in 1982 when Miyazaki and Isao Takahata were on a roadshow tour promoting the release of The Castle of Cagliostro and were set to work on the adaptation of Little Nemo: Adventures in Slumberland. Lasseter was still working as an animator for Disney at the time, and mentions the tremendous influence Miyazaki has had on his work. Lasseter recounts how he traveled to Japan to attend the 1987 Hiroshima Animation Festival and visited Miyazaki's office, bringing along his two animated shorts Luxo Jr. and Red's Dream.
A day or so later, Miyazaki and company travel to Pixar Animation Studios for a tour. They walk through the various offices and meeting rooms until reaching the open-air amphitheater where Lasseter and Miyazaki suddenly begin to sing the opening theme to My Neighbor Totoro, one of Lasseter's personal favorites. Later that day, Miyazaki surprises the Pixar team with a special screening of Mei and the Kittenbus.

    Lasseter and his family propose a toast to Miyazaki and Toshio Suzuki and their future successes.  The following day, they drive to Lasseter's home in Sonoma. When they arrive, Miyazaki presents Lasseter with a special gift, a model reaction of the bathhouse in Spirited Away. Suzuki then unboxes another gift, a limited-edition wooden Ghibli-themed DVD player, which elicits a strong reaction from Lasseter's family. A toast is held after that. A day after that, Miyazaki test drives a sports car to wine country, and then they are treated to a aerial tour on a scarlet biplane. The final entertainment of the day sees Miyazaki and company test driving vintage cars in a race course.
The trip ends with Miyazaki and Suzuki attending an event hosted by the Charity Benefit for the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation. A panel is held, and Miyazaki amusingly introduces the man whose daughter became the basis for Chihiro in Spirited Away. Following another screening of Mei and the Kittenbus, Miyazaki autographs some merchandise for the children attending and bids them and everyone farewell. Suzuki narrates the trepidation with which Miyazaki approached the event. In Japan, such events are not the domain of a director; but Miyazaki not only felt good about the charitable cause. As they are about to leave, Lasseter assures Suzuki that the upcoming premiere will be a hit.
The film ends in Studio Ghibli's office in Japan, where we see the autographed Pixar poster that was presented to Miyazaki as a gift.

Trivia[]
Disney assigned Lasseter to executively produced the English dubbed release under the title of Spirited Away.
References[]


↑ Nausicaa Wiki, "Lasseter-san, Arigato!" summary.


External Links[]
Lasseter-San, Arigato! on Film Affinity
Pixar Exhibit on Buta Connections
Navigation[]






 V • T • E    Credits





Credits




Founders

Hayao Miyazaki (Director) •  Isao Takahata (Director) •  Toshio Suzuki (Producer) •   Yasuyoshi Tokuma (Executive Producer)





Notable Staff

Steve Alpert (Overseas Promotion Manager) •  Hideaki Anno (Director) •  Masashi Ando (Animator) •  Makiko Futaki (Animator) •  Hitomi Tateno (Animation Check) •  Toru Hara (Producer) •  Takeshi Inamura (Animator) •  Katsuya Kondō (Animation Director) •  Yoshifumi Kondō (Animation Director) •  Koji Hoshino (President) •  Megumi Kagawa (Animator) •  Yoshinori Kanada (Animator) •  Kitarō Kōsaka (Director) •  Kazuo Komatsubara (Art Director) •  Goro Miyazaki (Director) •  Tomomi Mochizuki (Director) •  Hiroyuki Morita (Director)  •  Yoshiyuki Momose (Animation Director) •  Yoshiaki Nishimura (Producer) •  Atsushi Okui (Director of Photography) •  Kazuo Oga (Background Artist) •  Shinsuke Nonaka (Production Affairs Manager) •  Kaoru Mano (Titles) •  Keiko Niwa (Screenwriter) •  Reiko Okuyama (Animator) •  Seiji Okuda (Director) •  Takeshi Seyama (Director) •  Masako Shinohara (Animator) •  Atsushi Takahashi (Storyboard) •  Yohei Takamatsu (Art Director) •  Atsuko Tanaka (Key Animator) •  Yôji Takeshige (Art Director) Kazuhide Tomonaga (Animator) •  Yasuo Uragami (Sound Director) •  Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Sound Director) •  Akihiko Yamashita (Animator Director) •  Michiyo Yasuda (Color Designer) •  Hiromasa Yonebayashi (Director) •  Nizô Yamamoto (Background Artist) •  Kenichi Yoshida (Animator) •  Noboru Yoshida (Art Director) •  Ushiko (Cat)





Music

Joe Hisaishi •  Michio Mamiya •  Yuji Nomi





Association

Eiko Kadono (Author) •  Tokiko Kato (Singer) •  John Lasseter (Director) •   Rieko Nakagawa (Author) •  Tatsuo Hori (Author) •  Mamoru Hosoda (Director) •  Yoshie Hotta (Author) •  Yōichi Kotabe (Senior Animator) •  Naohisa Inoue (Artist) •  Keisuke Miyazaki (Son) •  Kenji Miyazawa (Author) •  Yasuji Mori (Animation Director) •  Hideo Ogata (Animage Editor) •  Osamu Sagawa (Friend) •  Ryōtarō Shiba (Author) •  Mamiko Suzuki (Toshio Suzuki's Daughter) •  Mamoru Oshii (Director) •  Yasuo Ōtsuka (Director)





Affiliated Companies

Anime Torotoro •  NHK •  Nippon Animation •  Tokyo Movie Shinsha •  Fuji TV •  Oh! Production •  Pony Canyon •  Tokuma Shoten •  Tokuma International •  Shinchosha Publishing •  Dentsu •  Tohokushinsha Film Corporation •  Mitsubishi •  Studio Kajino •  Studio Ponoc •  Streamline Pictures •  Toei Animation •  Toei Company •  TopCraft •  Shochiku •  Toho •  The Walt Disney Company •  Central Park Media •  Sentai Filmworks •  GKIDS •  Madman Entertainment









 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater