Title: Lebannen
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Lebannen
--------------------------------------------------
Arren / Lebannen






Japanese name
アレン王子 (Aren Ōji)


Species
Human


Age
17 years


Gender
Male


First Appearance
Tales from Earthsea


Role
Main character


Voice actor (Japanese)
Junichi Okada


Voice actor (Disney)
Matt Levin




Prince Arren is the protagonist of the film Tales from Earthsea.

Contents

1 Appearance
2 Story
3 True Name
4 Relationships
5 Gallery
6 Trivia


Appearance[]
Arren is a handsome young man with dark brown hair and deep dark eyes. He often has an innocent and pleading expression, though he can also appear angry.  
He typically wears an old blue shirt, occasionally paired with a purple robe with gold edges or a brown cape.

Story[]
Arren murders his father, the King of Enlad due to a sudden and strange impulse called Uneinheit where he takes his powerful, magic-infused sword. He will come to disarm Sparrowhawk under a spell with this, and later will destroy Lord Cob himself.
After fleeing from the castle, he meets Sparrowhawk, and he stays with him throughout most of the film. Prince Arren has a strong sense of right and wrong, although this is dimmed in the event of implanted rage stealing his heart. Whenever he is prone to this rage, his face shivers and wrinkles, almost as if he is scared of what is about to happen. Being an excellent swordsman, he is a deadly warrior, but is vulnerable when ambushed, a proen when he is captured briefly by Hare and reinforcements while asleep.
Arren throughout the film acts strangely, and in the end the viewers learn that Arren was being semi-controlled by Cob. His guilt and Therru's initial disrespect for him culminates in them only being good friends at the end of the film.

True Name[]
Lebannen (レバンネン, Reban-nen) is Arren's true name and it seems to be a clue to enslaving him in Cob's case, or awakening him. 

In the novels, Lebannen was the name of his father.
Relationships[]
Ged (Wizard): He feels some hate when he saves him, and later he gets to treat him as a teacher or a father figure. The two share a good relationship.
Therru: Despite her hating him at first, Arren tries to make her feel comfortable around him. When he was kidnapped, Therru was the one who was more worried than anyone. At the end of the film, the two share romantic feelings for each other.
King of Enlad (as he killed): He actually loved his father and he was partly possessed when he stabbed him.
Arren's Steed: Arren takes care of his personal steed.
Gallery[]
Arren is still on prisonArren drawing his sword outArren with his magic swordSwedish posterDVD posterCob is frightened by Arren's sword.
Trivia[]
Arren means "sword" in Enlad, and Lebannen means Sorbus commixta in the ancient language.
Arren is similar to Ashitaka of Princess Mononoke:
Both are heirs of leaders.
Both are cursed.
Both are blessed with great strength, but they can lose control of themselves.
Both has steeds that were inspired by Yakul appeared in the The Journey of Shuna.