Title: Lettie Hatter
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Lettie_Hatter
--------------------------------------------------
Lettie Hatter






Species
Human


Age
Around 16 (under 18)


Gender
Female


First Appearance
Howl's Moving Castle


Role
Supporting character


Voice actor (Japanese)
Yayoi Kazuki


Voice actor (Disney)
Jena Malone




Lettie Hatter (レティー・ハッター , Retī Hattā) is Sophie's younger sister and daughter of Honey, as seen in the film, Howl's Moving Castle. She is a chocolate sales clerk at a large café called Cesari's. Cheery and outgoing, she takes after her mother. She is popular and adored by café's patrons.[1] She is voiced by Yayoi Kazuki in Japanese version and Jena Malone in English version.

Contents

1 Appearance
2 History

2.1 Film
2.2 Novel

2.2.1 Howl's Moving Castle
2.2.2 Castle in the Air




3 Behind the Scenes
4 Relationships
5 Quotes
6 References
7 Navigation


Appearance[]
    Lettie and several of her admirers at Cesari's.  Lettie is a very beautiful teenage girl of a petite, slender build, light strawberry blonde hair, and blue eyes.
Her hair is pulled in a big updo and she wears blue eyeshadow and red lips. She wears a white frilly headband with cherry patterns and a pink trim with red earrings. She has a bright pink dress with a white collar and red brooch under a pale lilac apron.

History[]
Film[]
Lettie Hatter is Sophie's sister who works as a sales clerk in Cesari's café. She doesn't have a large role in the movie, appearing only in the beginning when Sophie comes to see her at the bakery. Lettie is presented as nearly a complete opposite of Sophie, she is a conversationalist, wears bright colors, is seemingly happy with her appearance and is popular with all the customers, the males in particular a male customer commenting, 'Hey I'm over here where are you going?'
She is polite to everyone and is deeply concerned when she hears about a 'wizard' rescuing Sophie. Lettie warns her to be careful about wizards and witches who are 'on the prowl'. As Sophie leaves Lettie questions her about what she wants out of her life, if the hat shop is really where she wants to spend the rest of her life.
It's your life Sophie! Do something for yourself, for once will you?
The contrast between the two sisters in the movie highlights Sophie's responsible personality of being the eldest and therefore taking over the hat shop her father formerly owned. Lettie tries to make Sophie realize her own dreams rather than thinking about their father but Sophie ignores this bidding Lettie farewell.
Lettie is voiced by Jena Malone in the English dubbed version.

Novel[]
Howl's Moving Castle[]
Lettie Hatter is Sophie's seventeen-year-old sister. She is considered the most beautiful of the three Hatter sisters, and has dark hair and blue eyes. Initially, she is an apprentice at Cesari's, a pastry shop in Market Chipping, but because she wishes to learn magic, she and Martha Hatter switch places using a temporary appearance altering spell. A strong minded young woman, Lettie becomes fond of a stray dog which is in fact a bespelled human. When she finds out Sophie has been bespelled and lives in Howl's castle, she sends the dog to protect Sophie from Howl's charm. Though she has a pretty mild role in the novel she only has a small appearance in the movie. At the end of the novel, Wizard Suliman takes Lettie on as a pupil, and there are hints of a future romance between them.

Castle in the Air[]
Lettie has married Wizard Suliman and is pregnant with his child. She greets Abdullah when he comes to their house to warn them of the djinn's threat. She immediately recognizes Sophie, who is in the form of a cat, and with Suliman's help changes her back to her true form. 
After a brief conversation with Sophie, Abdullah and Suliman, the Princess Valeria is kidnapped and Wizard Suliman is being blamed for it. Lettie is worried for him. When Lettie, Abdullah and Sophie go to the inn where Adbullah has been staying at, the police arrive to arrest Abdullah and the soldier. Lettie stays behind in the inn while Sophie and Abdullah travel to the Castle in the Air on the flying carpet, because she is too heavy, and gives the police a piece of her mind when they arrive.
At the end of the novel, Lettie goes into labour while yelling at the King of Ingary who is accusing Wizard Suliman of treason. As a result, Lettie and Suliman miss Princess Beatrice and Prince Justin's wedding ceremony, and also Abdullah and Flower-in-the-Night's wedding ceremony, and Lettie safely gives birth to a baby girl. 

Behind the Scenes[]
Supervising animator Akihiko Yamashita, "I'm not very interested in drawing beautiful girl characters with large round eyes. But I really enjoy drawing girls like Lettie who actually might exist. Many of Miyazaki's characters seem so real. Sophie might looko cute on her own, but when she's next to her younger sister Lettie, she gives the impression she's 'plain'. I enjoyed that contrast."

Relationships[]
Sophie Hatter (sister): She is a loving sister. Sophie is kind towards her.
Honey (mother): Not much is revealed about their relationship, but it is said that they love each other.
Quotes[]
"I want to know what you want. It's your life, Sophie. Do something for yourself for once, will you?"
—Lettie Hatter

References[]


↑ "The Art of Howl's Moving Castle", p.57


Navigation[]


Howl's Moving Castle


Characters


Main Cast

Howl | Sophie | Calcifer | Markl | Turnip Head


Kingdom of Ingary

Suliman | King | Heen | Kosho | Witch of the Waste


Hatter Family

Honey | Lettie


Species

Non-Muggles | Peeping Bugs | Blob Men | Tadpole Monsters


Others

Bessie | Madge (Howl's Customer) | Mayor of Porthaven | Star Children


Miscellaneous


Locations

Ingary | Market Chipping | Cesari's | Hatter's Hat Shop | The Waste | Porthaven | Star Lake | Kingsbury | Royal Palace | Howl's Castle | Howl's Bedroom | Cave of Mind | Secret Garden | Howl's Cottage


Mechanical Designs and Magical Objects

Battleship | Flying Battleship | Bomber | Flying Kayak | Palanquin | Magic Ring


Music

Soundtrack  | The Promise of the World







 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater