Title: Madam Mumblechook
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Madam_Mumblechook
--------------------------------------------------
Madam Mumblechook






Species
Witch


Age
110 years - 120 years


Gender
Female


First Appearance
Mary and the Witch's Flower


Role
Villain


Voice actor (Japanese)
Yūki Amami


Voice actor (GKIDS)
Kate Winslet




Madame Mumblechook is the secret main villain in the Studio Ponoc film, Mary and the Witch's Flower.
She is the Headmistress of Endor College, loved by all her students and equally respected. As the film progresses her true nature of obtaining the Fly-by-Night flower starts to show. In a flashback, she is shown to care for her students and becomes overjoyed when Mary 's Great Aunt / Adoptive Grandmother Charlotte gives her the flower. She later uses this flower in an experiment to give the students unlimited magic. (The experiment fails in both the flashback shown and later on when the subject is Peter.) she is an archenemy of Mary Smith and Peter.

Personality[]
When introducing herself to Mary, she is shown to be polite and welcoming towards her. However, she turns harsh when she believes Mary to be a trespasser (the punishment being that trespassers will be transformed 'into something other than themselves').
During a flashback, she can be seen placing a plaster onto the forehead of an injured student showing that she cared for them before being corrupted by the Fly-by-Night.
Once she has obtained said flower, she discovers the location of Peter by reading a piece of paper she obtained from Mary, off-screen and when Mary returns home she discovers that Mumblechook had captured Peter and the only way to free him was to bring the Headmistress the flower she desired.
During the experiment, Mumblechook believes nothing can go wrong but once Peter has been overtaken by a goo like substance (the flower) she tries stopping it by casting a spell. Unfortunately, her magic is stolen and she remained passed out where her defeat is unknown at the end of the film when Peter is rescued and returned home by Mary.


Trivia[]
Madam Mumblechook is based by the character on Yubaba from Spirited Away as the lead main villain and both evil Sorceress.
Madam Mumblechook is based by the character on Witch of the Waste from Howl's Moving Castle as the lead main villain and both evil Sorceress.
Madam Mumblechook is based by the character on Fujimoto from Ponyo as the lead main villain and both evil Sorceress.
Gallery[]
Headmistress Mumblechook and Dr. Dee as they welcome Mary to EndorMumblechook capturing Peter for the experimentMumblechook as she talks to Dr. Dee about how the experiment won't fail this timeMumblechook witnesses the experiment with Peter as the subjectMumblechook has her magic stolen as she witnesses the experiment fail againMumblechook's defeat along with Doctor Dee