Title: Mandrake
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Mandrake
--------------------------------------------------
Mandrake






Species
Demon


Age
34 years


Gender
Male


Voice actor (Japanese)
Etsushi Toyokawa


Voice actor (English)
Richard E. Grant





Mandrake (マンドレーク, Mandorēku) is a character in the film Earwig and the Witch. He is a former band member who lives with Bella Yaga who adopt Earwig.

Contents

1 Appearance
2 Personality
3 Plot
4 Trivia
5 References


Appearance[]
    Mandrake enraged.  
The Mandrake is extremely tall (usually phasing through doorways and walls, but often crouching his head to enter when he doesn't) and lanky with thick circular glasses. His ears are his most identifiable feature, as they are long and pointed. Earwig initially mistakes them for horns. His hair is short and brown, though during his time as a rock star, it was long and dark purple. He wears a purple robe and pants with a faint floral pattern on them, with a white button up underneath. When upset, his eyes spark with anger, veins grown on his forehead, and a dark smoke comes from his back.
When he is angered, he grows in size, grows dark scales, and grows claws on his hands and feet. His pants tear, and the rest of his outfit becomes colored orange and black. The sparks in his eyes are more powerful  than ever, and the smoke comes from all over his body rather than just his back.
The Mandrake's eyewear came from character designer Katsuya Kondō, to make the character seem mysterious, elusive, and obscures what he might be feeling. 

Personality[]
Mandrake is very easily upset and wields the greatest amount of power in the house. Since he is so easy to anger, he often isolates himself and resents being disturbed. He is the first to come around to treating Earwig with kindness, as he has good intentions deep down.

Plot[]
The Mandrake was the pianist of the band Earwig before it disbanded. After their disbanding, he becomes an author- however, his books are usually met with poor reviews. He lives with Bella Yaga, but they do not seem to be more than just cynical, washed-out bandmates, let alone friends.

Trivia[]
His name is a reference to Mandrake.
References[]