Title: Marsh house
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Marsh_house
--------------------------------------------------
Locations






Name
Marsh house


⓵ Appearance
When Marnie Was There

[ Template documentation ]

The Marsh House is an abandoned mansion from When Marnie Was There. Marnie and her parents moved into the house when she was a toddler and she ended up living there for most of her childhood -- besides Marnie and her parents, there was also Marnie's nanny and a pair of maids living at the house, with the maids and the nanny looking after Marnie when her parents weren't around (which was basically all the time, as they were often away traveling and were only ever home a few times per year).
Sometime during Anna Sasaki's stay in Kissakibetsu (the rural seaside town that the Marsh House is located in), the Doi family moves into the house from Tokyo -- Sayaka, the family's daughter, ends up moving into Marnie's old bedroom and discovers some of her old belongings hidden in certain areas around the room, like Marnie's old diary (which had some pages missing that Sayaka found later on) and a painting that Marnie's old friend, Hisako had made for her.

Contents

1 In film
2 Resident(s)

2.1 Current
2.2 Former




In film[]
    The back of the marsh house  
After Anna Sasaki (who has asthma) suffers a bit of health scare during a school outing, Yoriko (Anna's adoptive mother) sends her to stay with some relatives that happen to live in Kissakibetsu for the summer -- specifically, Anna's staying with Yoriko's older sister, Setsu, and Setsu's husband, Kiyomasa (making them Anna's aunt and uncle).
After arriving at Setsu and Kiyomasa's house and getting things set up in her room for the summer, Anna sets off to the local post office to mail her postcard letting Yoriko know that she arrived in town safely -- after doing so, Anna ends up exploring the town for a little while and ends up stumbling upon the marsh house (quite literally). The house feels weirdly familiar to Anna despite the fact that, as far she knows, this is her first time actually seeing the house -- Anna's able to walk across the salt marsh (due to it being low tide at the time) to get to the house and ends up exploring the mansion and the surrounding grounds, where it soon becomes apparent that nobody's living there (and appears to have been empty for quite some time). Anna ends up dozing off during her exploration and doesn't wake up until way after the high tide has come in. But fortunately for Anna, a local fisherman rows up to the back area of the marsh house that she entered through and is nice enough to give her a ride back to the docks. During the boat ride back to the docks, Anna sees what appears to be the mansion all lit up (as if someone's living there), but then it appears abandoned again. After arriving at the docks, Anna thanks the fisherman (later revealed to be named "Tōichi") for the ride and he points her in the right direction to her aunt and uncle's house.
After finally getting back to the Oiwas, Anna tells Setsu and Kiyomasa about her little adventure, during which Setsu confirms that the house has been empty for quite some time. She also tells her niece some of the history of the house: it was originally built with the intention of being a fancy vacation home for some wealthy foreigners who moved to town sometime after WW2 ended and, prior to being abandoned, ownership of the home had changed quite a few times. Kiyomasa also claims that, just like with the abandoned silo that Anna saw when they were driving into town from the train station, many of the locals think that the marsh house is haunted and advises his niece to stay away from the mansion for her own safety.
Anna eventually meets Marnie, a girl around her age who lives in the marsh house (and who Anna eventually realizes was her biological maternal grandmother). Marnie and Anna spend quite a bit of time together over the course of the movie, including in and around the mansion as well as the land nearby (including the abandoned silo, which Marnie is deeply afraid of). Before Anna explores the silo with Marnie, the Doi family buys and moves into the old Marsh house -- with how old the house is and how it become kind of run-down with nobody living in there for such a long time, the Dois also start having various renovations done on it. The family's daughter, Sayaka, moves into Marnie's old room and discovers some of Marnie's old belongings hidden in various areas around the room (like Marnie's old diary and a painting that Hisako had made for Marnie before she moved out of the house). Anna and Sayaka become friends and start hanging out together, and by the end of the movie, when it's time for Anna to go back home to Sapporo, the two girls promise to keep in touch, with Anna hoping to come back next summer.
Also, at the end of the movie, when Yoriko arrives in Kissakibetsu to bring Anna back home to Sapporo, Yoriko gives her daughter an old photograph that she had carried around with her during her time at the orphanage (from before she and Mr. Sasaki had adopted her as their daughter), claiming that the people at the orphanage told her that the photograph originally belonged to Anna's biological grandmother. Seeing that the photograph is of the marsh house (along with seeing Marnie's name written on the back of it) is what makes Anna realize that Marnie was her grandmother (as well as the fact that Marnie's daughter, Emily, was her biological mother) and also helps to bring Anna closure about her identity and her past.

Resident(s)[]
Current[]
Sayaka
Takeshi Doi and the Doi family
Former[]
Marnie