Title: Mary
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Mary
--------------------------------------------------
Mary Smith






Species
Human (Witch)


Age
11 years (April 19th)


Gender
Female


First Appearance
Mary and the Witch's Flower


Voice actor (Japanese)
Hana Sugisaki


Voice actor (GKIDS)
Ruby Barnhill




Mary Smith is the main protagonist in the film: Mary and the Witch's Flower directed by Hiromasa Yonebayashi and produced by Studio Ponoc. Her Seiyū was Hana Sugisaki.

Appearance[]
Mary is a young girl with bushy/messy bright red hair that reaches just past her shoulders. She has two short strands of hair on her forehead, along with a couple shorter ones. Mary's eyes are sharp blue, and she always has a bright expression.
Her fashion choice includes, short skirts, long shirts, cartigans, over-the-knee stockings, sweaters, and cute sneakers, or brown laced boots. Her sleepwear consists of a light-yellow shirt-dress that reaches the knees.

Personality[]
Mary is a strongheaded and witty girl, stubborn and loud. She tries to help out when she can, but due to her clumsiness, is often let go. She has a lack of perception, and is quite teasing at points. She hated her hairstyle at first, but gradually accepted it.

Trivia[]
Mary has similar red hairstyle of Ponyo.
Her persona holds similarities to Kiki as well as both sharing a similar storyline. The major difference being that Kiki always knew she was a witch while Mary didn’t.
Mary was also inspired of the character, Gerda from Hans Christian Andersen's The Snow Queen: In Mary and the Witch's Flower, it is commented-upon multiple times how many people who come into contact with Mary will always end-up liking her and even helping her; in The Snow Queen, the Finnish wisewoman discloses: I can give her no greater power than she has already," said the woman; "don't you see how strong that is? How men and animals are obliged to serve her, and how well she has got through the world, barefooted as she is. She cannot receive any power from me greater than she now has, which consists in her own purity and innocence of heart. If she cannot herself obtain access to the Snow Queen, and remove the glass fragments from little Kai, we can do nothing to help her...
—The Finn Woman from The Snow Queen
This article is a stub. You can help Ghibli Wiki by  expanding it.