Title: Masashi Ando
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Masashi_Ando
--------------------------------------------------
Masashi Ando






Native name
安藤 雅司


Born
January 17, 1969Hiroshima, Japan


Nationality
Japanese


Occupation (s)
Director  •  animation director  •  animator  •  character designer


Years active
1990-present


Employer
Studio Ghibli (1990-2001)


Masashi Ando (安藤 雅司 , Andō Masashi, born January 17, 1969) is a Japanese director, animation director, painting supervisor, illustrator and character designer.
He is best known as the animation director of Princess Mononoke, Spirited Away and Your Name. He later left Ghibli to work freelance, collaborating with Satoshi Kon on Tokyo Godfathers, Paranoia Agent and Paprika. In 2011, he worked with Hiroyuki Okiura on A Letter to Momo, before working on When Marnie Was There and The Tale of the Princess Kaguya. 
In 2021, he directed his first feature-length animated film Shika no Ō (鹿の王, lit. The Deer King), based on the hit Japanese fantasy novel series written by Nahoko Uehashi and produced by Production I.G.[1]

Contents

1 History

1.1 Early Career
1.2 Princess Mononoke
1.3 Going Freelance


2 Character
3 Trivia
4 Works

4.1 Character Design
4.2 Animated Works


5 References
6 External Links
7 Navigation


History[]
Early Career[]
    Ando credits the Nausicaa for his interest in animation, and even drew illustrations of it and Castle in the Sky (Below) for Animage magazine.  Born in Hiroshima, Japan. Ando's interest in animation began when he accidentally read the mange of Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind. He soon began publishing illustrations of Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind and Castle in the Sky on Animage magazine. He has been quoted saying, "If Nausicaa didn't exist, I might have been prematurely finished from animation... But because of such a work, I realized that there is no way I could leave animation."[2]
In 1990, while attending Nihon University College of Art, he participated in a Studio Ghibli recruitment drive and was accepted. He joined the company shortly after as a second-year student. He worked alongside fellow newcomers Kenichi Yoshida and Shinsaku Sasaki as an assistant animator on Only Yesterday. In 1991, he was moved to as an animator on Porco Rosso and later, Pom Poko. Recognizing his talent, Hayao Miyazaki selected Ando as animation director for the animated music video On Your Mark for the musical duo Chage and Aska.

Princess Mononoke[]
    Ando's appearance on the documentary of the making of Mononoke.  Following that, he was chosen as animation director of Princess Mononoke, a huge feat as he was only 25-years old at that point. In the film's behind-the-scenes documentary How Princess Mononoke Was Born, Ando was said to have worked until 4AM daily. He spoke highly about Miyazaki in an interview saying, "Although I have worked for Mr. Miyazaki for a long time, it was during this production process that I really realized Miyazaki's incredible skill. As an animator, Hayao is so great. His drawing skills are already impeccable, but besides that, he also knows how to make every scene the best to make animation come to life. I think he was born an animator." 
    The top scene of Ashitaka firing a warning shot at Yakul impressed on Ando Miyazaki's incredible talent, and the bottom scene where Ando's suggestion led to a more dynanmic scene.  He was particularly amazed by how Miyazaki choreographed a shot where Ashitaka prepares to fire an archery shot, as the elder director proposed drawing a double image to the bow, which would produce "a sense of a tremor" in the movement. Ando obeyed Miyazaki's opinions most of the time, not because he was his boss, but out of great admiration. This doesn't mean Ando always defers to Miyazaki, on the contrary, during the scene when San swipes after Lady Eboshi with her knife, he defied the director and removed an animation cel to give an illusion of faster, more dynamic movement. Miyazaki was pleased at his initiative and instinct.
Whenever Miyazaki rested during the grueling production, he would confer with Ando on the film's story. Late during development, Ando would ask how Miyazaki planned to develop the story. The original draft of Mononoke only described the war between the forest and the people of Tatara at Irontown. Miyazaki then came up with the idea that during the battle between the forest and the Tatara people, he would add a powerful samurai organization into the conflict, who destroyed and pillaged everything they could find. Ando then asked, 'shouldn't they add hints of the existence of this organization in the beginning of the film?' To which Miyazaki replied, 'This is not necessary. The real world is like this.'
But in fact, Miyazaki did listen to Ando's suggestion. New scenes and flashbacks were added to introduce the samurai organization in the beginning.

Going Freelance[]
     Ando refines the rough character sketches by Miyazaki to prepare for animation production. However, he came away frustrated as much of the nuance of his work was redrawn by Miyazaki.  His final work at Ghibli was working as the animation director for Spirited Away. According to Ando on The Art of Spirited Away, "The work I did as supervising animator was essentially the same as my work on Princess Mononoke. Mr. Miyazaki would do rough corrections of the submitted key animator, which Iw ould touch up. However, I was responsible for the final overall character design. For example, M.r Miyazaki would constantly flatten Lin's chest line, making her look boyish. Given her masculine personality, I thought it would be more interesting if she had a woman's body, so I increased her chest line. So this time I emphasized my own approach instead of seeking out Mr. Miyazaki's intentions."
According to interviews in the Spirited Away Roman Album, Ando wanted to make Chihiro "a new type of Miyazaki heroine". In particular, he wanted to show Chihiro's thinking, her uncertainty and hesitation before she does something frightening or difficult, so children could relate to her and feel encouraged when she triumphs. Ando argued, Miyazaki was denying the uncertainties felt by the happiest child... It seems logical that Ando's Chihiro is evident in (Spirited Away's) early scenes, precisely because they require an abnormal Miyazaki protagonist, listless, passive and scared. Unfortunately, Ando's Chihiro was largely redrawn by Miyazaki in the final film.[3]
"Painting supervision is the work of expressing ideas in paintings. The ideas in these works are those of Miyazaki, not mine." Perhaps not coincidentally, Ando left Ghibli to work freelance after Spirited Away. His Ghibli experience has been described thusly,

Masashi Ando, ​​who was born in Ghibli, has always restrained himself with the old Ghibli industry ethics and conveyed the persistence of old artists to newcomers in the industry. Not only that, he himself is constantly breaking through the original animation shackles and accepting the changes of animation.
     Ando’s layout correction for the famous body swapping sequence in Your Name.[4]  Since 2003, he worked as animation director for Satoshi Kon on Tokyo Godfathers, Paranoia Agent and Paprika. He enjoyed working with the late director Kon, as he would not say simply, "Draw me a lovely girl." Instead, he would give abstract requests such as, "I want girls who want that feeling~", and so on.
After Kon passed away in 2010, he worked with Hiroyuki Okiura as animation director and character designer in A Letter to Momo. He recorded an audio commentary with director Okiura and deputy animation director Toshiyuki Inoue.[5] In 2012, he also worked on Evangelion: 3.0 You Can (Not) Redo.
In 2013, he returned to Studio Ghibli to help Isao Takahata work on The Tale of the Princess Kaguya and as character designer and animation director on When Marnie Was There. He did not hold back his feelings upon his return to Ghibli, "My previous experience with Ghibli has always been under Miyazaki's control of the overall situation, and this time he is no longer involved, that is the main reason for my return to Ghibli."

     Ando’s diverse portfolio post-Ghibli include Paprika, Your Name and Shika no Ō.  In 2016, he worked with Makoto Shinkai as character design and animation director for Your Name. He was introduced by a former Ghibli colleague who worked at CoMix Wave Films. He initially worried that as an "old man" of the industry, he would not be able to adapt himself to the film's style. However, the support of Ando received from Shinkai was indispensable. He kept reminding himself that the production would only take "a year", but as production slowly ramped up, he realized a year would not be sufficient. Accordingly, as an animation supervisor, Ando's work has matured overall, and he kept an open mind to learning and experimentation. He taught the younger production staff through actions, "To make a real movie, we must do our best from the beginning, otherwise the desired results will not be achieved." Your Name's box office revenue topped nearly 200 billion yen.
In 2021, he worked as character designer and animation director on Shika no Ō (鹿の王, lit. The Deer King), produced by Production I.G. Based on the hit Japanese fantasy novel series written by Nahoko Uehashi.[6] He is joined by Masayuki Miyaji, who served as a co-director of Spirited Away, and wrote the screenplay for Haikyu!!, Silver Spoon, and Erased.

Character[]
Ando greatly admired the late Yoshifumi Kondō, a senior animation director at Studio Ghibli. He was greatly influenced by Kondō's attitude towards animation and how he perceives and animates people. Ando became responsible for editing Ghibli's in-office magazine Yoshifumi Kondo's work-what can be expressed in videos- (近藤喜文の仕事-動画で表現できること-) and an audio guide for This man supported Ghibli.
Cartoonist of Fumiko Takano (高野 文子) is a fan of his work on Spirited Away, and made attempts to incorporate his depiction of human characters to her style.

Trivia[]
Of the top five highest box office earning films in Japan which include Spirited Away, Your Name, Howl's Moving Castle, Bayside Shakedown, and Bayside Shakedown 2, Ando was the animation director for three of the five films.[7]
He was only 25 years old when he was selected as animation director of Princess Mononoke. On top of that, he was also in charge of character setting design.
Works[]
Character Design[]
On Your Mark (1995)
Princess Mononoke (1997) (with his mentor Yoshifumi Kondo)
Spirited Away (2001)
Paranoia Agent (2004)
Paprika (2006)
A Letter to Momo (2012)
When Marnie Was There (2014) (also co-wrote the script)
Animated Works[]
Only Yesterday (1991) (In-Between Animation)
Porco Rosso (1992) (Key Animation)
Ocean Waves (1993) (Key Animation)
Pom Poko (1994) (Key Animation)
Whisper of the Heart (1995) (Key Animation)
My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) (Key Animation)
Overman King Gainer (2002) (Key Animation)
Tokyo Godfathers (2003) (Animation Director and Key Animation)
The Animatrix (2003) (on the Kid's Story segment) (Key Animation)
Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence (2004) (Key Animation)
Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex 2nd GIG (2004) (Key Animation)
Tekkonkinkreet (2006) (Key Animation)
Denno Coil (2007) (Key Animation)
Bunny Drop (2011) (Key Animation)
The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) (Animation)
Your Name (2016) (Animation Director)
References[]

↑ Shika no Ō on Twitter

↑ "Masashi Ando Profile", Baidu

↑ "A LETTER TO MOMO", All That Anime

↑ "Your Name: Post-Ghibli Industry", Sakuga Blog

↑ "A Letter to Momo Audio Commentary Recording", Twitter

↑ Shika no Ō on Twitter

↑ "Masashi Ando directorial debut!", Hon-Hikidashi


External Links[]
 Masashi Ando at the Internet Movie Database  
 Masashi Ando on Anime News Network
 Masashi Ando on Wikipedia
Navigation[]






 V • T • E    Credits





Credits




Founders

Hayao Miyazaki (Director) •  Isao Takahata (Director) •  Toshio Suzuki (Producer) •   Yasuyoshi Tokuma (Executive Producer)





Notable Staff

Steve Alpert (Overseas Promotion Manager) •  Hideaki Anno (Director) •  Masashi Ando (Animator) •  Makiko Futaki (Animator) •  Hitomi Tateno (Animation Check) •  Toru Hara (Producer) •  Takeshi Inamura (Animator) •  Katsuya Kondō (Animation Director) •  Yoshifumi Kondō (Animation Director) •  Koji Hoshino (President) •  Megumi Kagawa (Animator) •  Yoshinori Kanada (Animator) •  Kitarō Kōsaka (Director) •  Kazuo Komatsubara (Art Director) •  Goro Miyazaki (Director) •  Tomomi Mochizuki (Director) •  Hiroyuki Morita (Director)  •  Yoshiyuki Momose (Animation Director) •  Yoshiaki Nishimura (Producer) •  Atsushi Okui (Director of Photography) •  Kazuo Oga (Background Artist) •  Shinsuke Nonaka (Production Affairs Manager) •  Kaoru Mano (Titles) •  Keiko Niwa (Screenwriter) •  Reiko Okuyama (Animator) •  Seiji Okuda (Director) •  Takeshi Seyama (Director) •  Masako Shinohara (Animator) •  Atsushi Takahashi (Storyboard) •  Yohei Takamatsu (Art Director) •  Atsuko Tanaka (Key Animator) •  Yôji Takeshige (Art Director) Kazuhide Tomonaga (Animator) •  Yasuo Uragami (Sound Director) •  Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Sound Director) •  Akihiko Yamashita (Animator Director) •  Michiyo Yasuda (Color Designer) •  Hiromasa Yonebayashi (Director) •  Nizô Yamamoto (Background Artist) •  Kenichi Yoshida (Animator) •  Noboru Yoshida (Art Director) •  Ushiko (Cat)





Music

Joe Hisaishi •  Michio Mamiya •  Yuji Nomi





Association

Eiko Kadono (Author) •  Tokiko Kato (Singer) •  John Lasseter (Director) •   Rieko Nakagawa (Author) •  Tatsuo Hori (Author) •  Mamoru Hosoda (Director) •  Yoshie Hotta (Author) •  Yōichi Kotabe (Senior Animator) •  Naohisa Inoue (Artist) •  Keisuke Miyazaki (Son) •  Kenji Miyazawa (Author) •  Yasuji Mori (Animation Director) •  Hideo Ogata (Animage Editor) •  Osamu Sagawa (Friend) •  Ryōtarō Shiba (Author) •  Mamiko Suzuki (Toshio Suzuki's Daughter) •  Mamoru Oshii (Director) •  Yasuo Ōtsuka (Director)





Affiliated Companies

Anime Torotoro •  NHK •  Nippon Animation •  Tokyo Movie Shinsha •  Fuji TV •  Oh! Production •  Pony Canyon •  Tokuma Shoten •  Tokuma International •  Shinchosha Publishing •  Dentsu •  Tohokushinsha Film Corporation •  Mitsubishi •  Studio Kajino •  Studio Ponoc •  Streamline Pictures •  Toei Animation •  Toei Company •  TopCraft •  Shochiku •  Toho •  The Walt Disney Company •  Central Park Media •  Sentai Filmworks •  GKIDS •  Madman Entertainment









 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater