Title: Mei and the Kittenbus
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Mei_and_the_Kittenbus
--------------------------------------------------
Mei and the Kittenbus






Rōmaji
Mei to Konekobasu


Directed by
Hayao Miyazaki


Produced by
Toshio Suzuki


Written by
Hayao Miyazaki


Starring
Chika Sakamoto


Music by
Joe Hisaishi


Art Directed by
Ryoko Ina


Studio
Studio Ghibli


Production
Makiko NikiSugino SachikoHiromasa Yonebayashi


Release date(s)
October 2002


Mei and the Kittenbus (めいとこねこバス ,  Mei to Konekobasu) is a 13-minute animated film written and directed by Hayao Miyazaki and produced by Studio Ghibli and premiered in October 2002. It is the sequel to the 1988 film My Neighbor Totoro and is one of the twelve short films shown exclusively at the Saturn Theater, located at the basement of the Ghibli Museum in Mitaka, Tokyo and Cinema Orion in Ghibli Park. It has been considered the museum's most popular short film.
The film tells the lighthearted story of Mei and her adventures with the Kittenbus, a child version of the Catbus. Totoro also makes a return appearance. As the sequel to a beloved classic, Miyazaki stated, “This piece was made specially for children.” It is the only direct sequel made to any Ghibli film. Joe Hisaishi returned to score the project. 
In 2003, the film was screened for John Lasseter and his staff during Miyazaki's visit to Pixar in California, as seen in the DVD special, Lasseter-San, Arigato!.

Contents

1 Plot
2 Characters
3 Production
4 Music
5 Trivia
6 Voice Cast
7 Credits
8 Gallery
9 Download
10 References
11 External Links
12 Navigation


Plot[]
     Various stills from the film, including Mei offering the Kittenbus a piece of caramel to her entering the spirit realm to meet the Granny Cat and fellow Totoro-like gods.  All is well at Mei's home. Two months have passed after her mother returned home from the hospital. Mei goes outside to a little stone hill and watches the skies. When she eats a Japanese caramel cube candy, a mini whirlwind suddenly comes spinning her dress. The whirlwind chases after Mei and she runs back into the house where she manages to trap the whirlwind. It turns out to be a Kittenbus. The Kittenbus is scared and tries to escape the room at first, but bonds with Mei after she gives him a caramel cube to eat with her. The Catbus shows up, and Mei opens a window to let the Kittenbus follow the catbus into the air.
Later that night, the Kittenbus takes Mei for a ride. Along the way, they spot the catbus, the kittenbus' father, which is filled with spirits like Totoro. Another catbus pulls up beside them, and soon a variety of cat vehicles appear, such as a cat-train, all filled with Totoro-like spirits. The Catbuses drop their passengers off, and the Kittenbus drops Mei off with them. The spirits move apart to reveal Totoro, who is very happy to see her.
Mei hops onto his chest and he takes her to a giant, ancient Granny Cat that is being boarded by the spirits. The Kittenbus appears on his head and Mei asks the Kittenbus, "Is this your grandma?" in which the Kittenbus meows back. Mei introduces herself as the Kittenbus' friend, and proceeds to feed her a caramel cube. A few minutes are taken to eat the caramel candy where she almost chokes, but is ultimately happy after swallowing. She gives Mei a lick and she licks her back. The giant cat liner leaves while Totoro stays behind. Mei and the Kittenbus follow them for a while, then return to Mei's house.

Characters[]
Mei Kusakabe (草壁 メイ, Kusakabe Mei)
Main protagonist of this short. Mei is the younger sister of Satsuki. She's bright, energetic and loves eating sweets. She enjoys playing around with the Kittenbus, along with Totoro and his companions.
Totoro (トトロ（大トトロ）, Totoro)
The enigmatic Totoro is a spirit that helps guide Mei and the Catbus to meet the wizened old Granny Cat.
Catbus (ネコバス , Neko Basu)
The Catbus is a flying anthropomorphic cat bus.
Kittenbus (こねこバス , Koneko Basu)
The Kittenbus is the smaller, more compact version of the Catbus.
Granny Cat (ネコばあちゃん, Neko Bāchan)
The Granny Cat is the largest and oldest of the catbuses in the film. Able to fit hundreds of forest spirits, she is similar in build to a cruise liner. Mei refers to the Granny Cat as akin to a grandmother.
Satsuki Kusakabe (Cameo) (草壁サツキ , Kusakabe Satsuki)
Mei's older preteen sister. She is seen very briefly, sleeping next to Mei.
Production[]
     Character sheet for the Kittenbus with Mei inside it.  In 1999, following the release of Isao Takahata's My Neighbors the Yamadas, rumors circulated that Hayao Miyazaki was considering making a sequel to My Neighbor Totoro.[1]
Following the success of Spirited Away and the opening of the Ghibli Museum in 2001, Hayao Miyazaki began storyboard work for this film. The story would be set two months following the events of My Neighbor Totoro and star Mei. Miyazaki teased the appearance of the Kittenbus prior to its release.[2] Like Spirited Away, the film shares themes of characters visiting a realm of gods and spirits, notably an area populated by Totoro-like spirits. The film also introduces "Neko Bāchan", the Granny Cat who was described as a "grandma", who was voiced by Miyazaki.

     A sketch of Mei in the Kittenbus by Hayao Miyazaki.  A total of about 15,000 animation drawings were necessary to complete the entire 13-minutes short. Chika Sakamoto, who was aged 43 at the time, reprised her role as Mei some fourteen years after the original. She jokingly said, "I've grown up since then." In addition to Neko Bāchan, Miyazaki also voices Totoro.[3] According to Noriko Hidaka, the actress who played Satsuki, "The voice of Catbus and the voice of the spirit who helps Satsuki and Mei in the beginning are the same voice actor." It is the third animated short film made exclusively for the museum, following The Whale Hunt and Koro's Big Day Out.
Music[]
     Joe Hisaishi introduced a new theme in pivotal scene involving several cat buses entering the forest.  
The soundtrack, Mei and the Kittenbus (めいとこねこバス サウンドトラック , Mei to Konekobasu Saundotorakku) was released under the Museo d'Arte Ghibli label and sold exclusively at the Mamma Aiuto shop in the Ghibli Museum on October 2, 2002. Joe Hisaishi completed the soundtrack in August 2002, which notably reprises many themes from the original My Neighbor Totoro. Two of the eight songs are new melodies, with the first being the scene where Mei offers the Kittenbus a piece of caramel candy. "I made this song with the feeling of Mei's character... 'Ta-ra-ri-ra-ra'... that is Mei's theme." While the melody sounded simple, it was actually composed of a complicated rhythm.
"I wanted to add some complexity to the simple melody, but make it interesting and easy to hum," says Hisaishi, who was very happy with the result. When the song was completed, he was convinced that it would be the core of the film's score and a key theme of joy for Mei and Kittenbus".[4]
The other new theme composed by Hisaishi is the scene involving several cat buses entering the forest. "That scene is a big turning point in the story. I wanted to make it a little more interesting and impressive." So Hisaishi introduced an oboe-type musical instrument called the "Crumhorn", which has an interesting shape like the handle of an umbrella. "It's interesting because it has an ethnic feel." In this way, new songs have been added to the song My Neighbor Totoro, and the music that plays alongside the video makes the work even more enjoyable.[3] Kei Yasui and Yuko Shoji played the Crumhorn, while New Japan Philharmonic Orchestra performed the soundtrack.[5]

Trivia[]
This is the only sequel that Studio Ghibli has ever produced.
In 2017, an informal poll by a fan revealed that few knew of the existence this film and its identity as a sequel to My Neighbor Totoro. Roughly 88 percent of the more than 102,000 respondents said they had never heard of the film.[6] This is mostly due to how the film were exclusively screened only at the Ghibli Museum in Mitaka.
In 2003, the film was screened for John Lasseter and his staff during Hayao Miyazaki's visit to Pixar in California, as seen in the DVD special, Lasseter-San, Arigato!. Lasseter, Miyazaki and Toshio Suzuki then traveled to Lasseter's home in Sonoma where his family described how they were huge fans of Totoro. Miyazaki proudly admitted he was the voice of the Granny Cat in the film.
Voice Cast[]
While the main cast has been identified, many of the other roles and background voices are uncredited.



Character

Voice Actor (Japanese)


Mei
Chika Sakamoto


Kittenbus
Hayao Miyazaki


Totoro
Hayao Miyazaki


Credits[]


Credit

Staff


Director, Screenplay
Hayao Miyazaki


Animation Director
Makiko Futaki, Sachiko Sugino, Hiromasa Yonebayashi


Key Animation
Megumi Kagawa, Kenichi Yamada, Masaru Matsuse, Misuzu Kurata, Kazuyoshi Onoda, Makiko Suzuki, Tamami Yamada, Atsushi Tamura, Kaori Fujii, Yoshinori Noguchi, Kojiro Tsuruoka, Hiroomi Morita, Nobuyuki Takeuchi, Masaru Oshiro


In-between Animation
Tadashi Yazawa, Aya Bridge, Yokota real, Nozomu Ito, Onishi Mayu, Mariko Suzuki, Rie Nakagomi, Akiko Teshima, Masako Sato, Uminai Tsutomu, Shuko Sasakawa, Katano Yoshi, Sakurako Yamada, Fumie Konno, Shinichiro Shunsuke, Yayoi Toki, Masako Banno, Mayumi Omura, Yumiko Makita, Sumie AzumaSeiko, Yukari YAMAURA, Shiina Ritsuko, Iwayanagi Rie, Hayashi Kondo, Rie Hiromi, Nishikawa, Fujimura Emiko, Kumiko Terada, Naoko Fujitani, Yamada Nobushige, foster child Kaori Ito, Kunitoshi Ishii, Kano Masashi, Yamada, Masayuki, Shimizu Saho, Saito Masahiro, Shinoda Daisuke, Makino Tetsuaki, Takuya Kawai, Matsumoto Ayako Noda, KoYoshi Nakano, Yoko Shikibe, Miyoko Hamada Takayuki


Background Artists
Naoya Tanaka, Naomi Kasugai, Tomoe Ishihara, Osamu Masuyama, Hiroaki Sasaki


Digital Painting
Kanako Moriya, Naomi Mori, Fumiko Oda, Hiroaki Ishii, Kazuko Yamada, Yukie Nomura, Akihiro Oyama, Rie Okada, Kiyoko Saito


Color Design
Michiyo Yasuda


Art Director
Ryoko Ina


Animation Cooperation
Studio Takuranke, Anime Toro Toro, Video Studio Telecom, Animation Film, Yumegenkan


Producer
Toshio Suzuki


Music
Joe Hisaishi


Editor
Takeshi Seyama

Gallery[]
Granny Cat
Download[]
Mei and the Kittenbus Video mp3

References[]


↑ Blog entry regarding rumors of "My Neighbor Totoro" sequel in the works since 1999.

↑ Blog entry regarding Miyazaki teasing Kittenbus appearance.

↑ 3.0 3.1 From the official pamphlet of "Mei and the Kitten Bus"

↑ Joe Hisaishi fansite featuring an interview with Hisaishi on composing "Mei and Kittenbus".

↑ Discogs profile on "Mei and Kittenbus".

↑ RocketNews24 on people learning about "Totoro" sequel.


External Links[]
 Mei and the Kittenbus on Anime News Network
 Mei and the Kittenbus at the Internet Movie Database  
Mei and the Kittenbus on Wikipedia
Navigation[]






 V • T • E    Credits





Credits




Founders

Hayao Miyazaki (Director) •  Isao Takahata (Director) •  Toshio Suzuki (Producer) •   Yasuyoshi Tokuma (Executive Producer)





Notable Staff

Steve Alpert (Overseas Promotion Manager) •  Hideaki Anno (Director) •  Masashi Ando (Animator) •  Makiko Futaki (Animator) •  Hitomi Tateno (Animation Check) •  Toru Hara (Producer) •  Takeshi Inamura (Animator) •  Katsuya Kondō (Animation Director) •  Yoshifumi Kondō (Animation Director) •  Koji Hoshino (President) •  Megumi Kagawa (Animator) •  Yoshinori Kanada (Animator) •  Kitarō Kōsaka (Director) •  Kazuo Komatsubara (Art Director) •  Goro Miyazaki (Director) •  Tomomi Mochizuki (Director) •  Hiroyuki Morita (Director)  •  Yoshiyuki Momose (Animation Director) •  Yoshiaki Nishimura (Producer) •  Atsushi Okui (Director of Photography) •  Kazuo Oga (Background Artist) •  Shinsuke Nonaka (Production Affairs Manager) •  Kaoru Mano (Titles) •  Keiko Niwa (Screenwriter) •  Reiko Okuyama (Animator) •  Seiji Okuda (Director) •  Takeshi Seyama (Director) •  Masako Shinohara (Animator) •  Atsushi Takahashi (Storyboard) •  Yohei Takamatsu (Art Director) •  Atsuko Tanaka (Key Animator) •  Yôji Takeshige (Art Director) Kazuhide Tomonaga (Animator) •  Yasuo Uragami (Sound Director) •  Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Sound Director) •  Akihiko Yamashita (Animator Director) •  Michiyo Yasuda (Color Designer) •  Hiromasa Yonebayashi (Director) •  Nizô Yamamoto (Background Artist) •  Kenichi Yoshida (Animator) •  Noboru Yoshida (Art Director) •  Ushiko (Cat)





Music

Joe Hisaishi •  Michio Mamiya •  Yuji Nomi





Association

Eiko Kadono (Author) •  Tokiko Kato (Singer) •  John Lasseter (Director) •   Rieko Nakagawa (Author) •  Tatsuo Hori (Author) •  Mamoru Hosoda (Director) •  Yoshie Hotta (Author) •  Yōichi Kotabe (Senior Animator) •  Naohisa Inoue (Artist) •  Keisuke Miyazaki (Son) •  Kenji Miyazawa (Author) •  Yasuji Mori (Animation Director) •  Hideo Ogata (Animage Editor) •  Osamu Sagawa (Friend) •  Ryōtarō Shiba (Author) •  Mamiko Suzuki (Toshio Suzuki's Daughter) •  Mamoru Oshii (Director) •  Yasuo Ōtsuka (Director)





Affiliated Companies

Anime Torotoro •  NHK •  Nippon Animation •  Tokyo Movie Shinsha •  Fuji TV •  Oh! Production •  Pony Canyon •  Tokuma Shoten •  Tokuma International •  Shinchosha Publishing •  Dentsu •  Tohokushinsha Film Corporation •  Mitsubishi •  Studio Kajino •  Studio Ponoc •  Streamline Pictures •  Toei Animation •  Toei Company •  TopCraft •  Shochiku •  Toho •  The Walt Disney Company •  Central Park Media •  Sentai Filmworks •  GKIDS •  Madman Entertainment









 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater