Title: Mei
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Mei
--------------------------------------------------
Information


Gallery






Mei Kusakabe






Japanese name
草壁 メイ (Mei Kusakabe)


Species
Human


Age
4 years


Gender
Female


First Appearance
My Neighbor Totoro


Second Appearance
Mei and the Kittenbus


Role
Main character


Voice actor (Japanese)
Chika Sakamoto


Voice actor (Streamline)
Cheryl Chase


Voice actor (Disney)
Elle Fanning




Mei Kusakabe (草壁 メイ, Kusakabe Mei) is the four-year-old protagonist and the little sister of Satsuki in My Neighbor Totoro and Mei and the Kittenbus. She is the daughter of Tatsuo and Yasuko Kusakabe. 
She is also one of the mascots of the Ghibli Museum in Mitaka.

Contents

1 Personality
2 Phyiscal Appereance
3 History
4 Characteristics
5 Behind the Voices
6 Relationships

6.1 Satsuki Kusakabe
6.2 Tatsuo Kusakabe
6.3 Yasuko Kusakabe
6.4 Granny


7 Mei and the Kittenbus
8 Quotes
9 Etymology
10 Trivia


Personality[]
Mei is the younger sister of Satsuki in My Neighbor Totoro. According to director Miyazaki's 1987 directorial memo, in contrast to Satsuki, who is reliable and quickwitted, Mei is a single-minded, persevering child. Stubborn yet cheerful, she is like her older sister in that she is persistent and not timid. But with her initial shyness and tendency to few words, she seems to be even more observant than Satsuki.
For some reason she doesn't fear goblins (Totoros), and the goblins that open up to her because her child's world has not yet been tainted by the common scene of adults-but this may also be due to her loneliness. Even Satsuki must bear up, but not having her mother around is an even greater hardship for a four-year old. 
Yet Mei is a bold, happy girl, without any dark shadow sin her personality. She runs after her older sister and imitates her. But if she comes across something interesting she becomes obsessed with it and forgets the way home or time, upsetting her older sister.

Phyiscal Appereance[]
Mei appears to be a small short fair-skinned round faced 4 year old little girl with black eyes and light brown hair usually styled into thick puffy pigtails with red scrunchies.
She wears a white short round sleeved white blouse underneath a coral pink dress with mustard yellow mary janes and often wears a brim sand coloured hat.
Later she wears a spagetti strap pink dress and is barefoot

History[]
    Mei spots the totoros in their yard.  Mei is Satsuki's troublesome and rambunctious little sister. Born in Tokyo in May 1954, she is the first seen aboard the moving van along with her sister and her father Tatsuo. There are awaiting their mother's release from the hospital in a house where the air is clear. She greedily eats her favorite snack of caramel while the family passes the rice fields of Sayama Hills. She first spots their new home beneath a giant camphor tree and along with her sister, excitedly greet the spirits that inhabit within. Granny, the caretaker of the home, takes a liking to Mei, and tells them that she once saw spirits too when she was young.
One day, Mei encounters one of the totoros and chases after it. The littlest one leads Mei to a tunnel to the massive camphor tree's roots where she accidentally falls through. There she meets Totoro, the spirit that inhabits the camphor tree. Mei isn't the least bit scared the large creature, and is in awe even as it yawns. "Ta,ta, ra..." Mei exclaims. The creature blinks and lets out a loud "Buha, buha". Mei shouts, "To, to, ro!"
With this, Mei becomes convinced that the creature is called a 'totoro'.
Mei cares deeply of her mother Yasuko who is the nearby hospital for an unspecified illness. She gets into an argument with Satsuki when she finds out their mother wouldn't be returning soon. She takes it upon herself to go to the hospital and ends up getting lost. Only with the efforts of Satsuki, Kanta, Totoro and Catbus do they find her unharmed.

Characteristics[]
Mei Kusakabe is four-years old. In the Steamline dub, she is five. She has sandy brown hair and chocolate brown eyes. She wears a white puffy blouse with a bright pink dress (as present on her birthday and bought from a shop) and sunshine yellow shoes and white bloomers, and carries a yellow bag. At the end of the film, she wears a carnation pink dress. Mei also wears a sunshine yellow night-dress at night and a sky blue night-dress at night in the sequel.

Behind the Voices[]
Mei is voiced by Chika Sakamoto in Seiyu, Cheryl Chase in Streamline dub and later Elle Fanning in Disney Dub. Sakamoto would reprise her role for Mei and the Kittenbus.

Relationships[]
Satsuki Kusakabe[]
Mei's older, more serious preteen sister. She looks up to her, often imitating what she does. She even follows her to school, and sits in her class to the amusement of Satsuki's classmates.

Tatsuo Kusakabe[]
Mei loves her father, despite being mostly absent due to work.

Yasuko Kusakabe[]
Mei's mother, who is sick in the film. Mei misses her mother dearly, and wishes to be with her one day.

Granny[]
Granny takes a shine to Mei, who sees her as the grandchild she never had. She is patient with Mei, knowing that her mother is indisposed at the hospital. She is terrified of Granny's farm animals.

Mei and the Kittenbus[]
    Actress Chika Sakamoto in a TV reunion. She reprises her role as Mei in Mei and the Kittenbus'.  Mei returns in the Ghibli-exclusive animated short Mei and the Kittenbus. The film was teased in the late 90's and completed shortly after the museum opened in October 2002.
The film begins in a blustery day at the Kusakabe home. Mei is busy running around the house. When she eats her favorite caramel cube candy, a mini whirlwind suddenly appears before her, the Kittenbus! The two quickly fly off in search of the great Granny Cat. In their journey, they meet up with Totoro and the Catbus, who leads them to a meeting point of all the totoros in the land.

Quotes[]
Can some ghosts live upstairs?

Do you like spirits, mommy? Even fuzzy ones?

To-to-ro? You're Totoro! I bet you're Totoro!
—Mei to Totoro

Etymology[]
The name Mei (2) is written in katakana (メイ), which has no special meaning. However, when written in kanji (芽依, 芽生 or 芽衣), it could possibly mean:
芽依 - "bud, sprout" (芽) (me) and "rely on" (依) (i).
芽生 - "bud, sprout" (芽) (me) and "life, living" (生) (i).
芽衣 - "bud, sprout" (芽) (me) and "clothing, garment" (衣) (i).
Mei's surname Kusakabe means "grass, herb, weed" (草) (kusa) and "wall" (壁) (kabe).
Trivia[]
According to Hayao Miyazaki, the name Mei is derived from May in Japanese.
Mei and the Kittenbus was specially screened at John Lasseter's home in gratitude for producing helping produce the dub for Spirited Away.


My Neighbor Totoro


Characters


Kusakabe Family

Tatsuo | Yasuko | Satsuki | Mei


Sayama Hills Residents

Granny | Kanta Ōgaki | Kanta's Father | Kanta's Mother | Mailman | Michiko | Miss Hara | Mover | Otoko | Ryōko


Totoros and Other Animals

Totoro | Mini Totoro | Catbus | Susuwatari | Granny's farm animals







 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater