Title: Mimiko
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Mimiko
--------------------------------------------------
Mimiko






Species
Human


Age
6-7


Gender
Female


First Appearance
Panda! Go, Panda!


Voice actor (Japanese)
Kazuko Sugiyama


Voice actor (English)
Julie Maddalena




Mimiko (ミミ子) is a little girl seen in Panda! Go, Panda!. She is an orphan girl that lives at her grandmother's house.

Contents

1 Appearance
2 Personality
3 Relationships
4 Etymology
5 Trivia


Appearance[]
Mimiko has red hair and black eyes. 
She wears a pink dress and yellow shirt underneath, yellow socks, brown Mary Jane shoes and white panties.

Personality[]
Mimiko is described as being a sweet little girl that never gets lonely, despite not having any parents.

Relationships[]
Papa Panda
Mimiko meets Papa Panda when he comes by her house looking for Panny, and she offers him a drink. When he learns that she has no parents, he offers to be her father. One day, they go out with Panny and Panny goes missing, ending up in the river heading towards a waterfall. Papa saves him and Mimiko by closing the floodgate and returns to the zoo with Panny on the condition that they return to Mimiko after the day ends.

Panny
Panny is first seen when Mimiko returns home after running out to do errands in town. Because he is asleep when they first meet, he is easily mistaken for a toy until he wakes up. When Papa Panda offers to be her father, Mimiko offers to be Panny's mother, which makes Panny happy. Panny follows her the next day to school and is mistaken for a toy by Mimiko's classmates, eventually causing a ruckus in the school kitchen when he wanders off, getting covered in curry. The next day, when they go out, Panny is attacked by a dog owned by one of two boys looking for the pandas and defends himself by picking up the dog and throwing it to the owner, demonstrating a degree of great strength. He somehow later ends up in the river heading towards a waterfall and is saved by Mimiko and Papa Panda before returning to the zoo on the condition that they return to be with Mimiko after the day ends.

Mimiko's Grandmother
She is seen boarding a train to Nagasaki to attend a memorial service for Mimiko's grandfather. She tells Mimiko to write to her everyday and is assured by her granddaughter that she will be fine on her own. Based on the second episode, she is aware of Papa Panda and Panny, as she's reading a letter from Mimiko detailing how things are.

Etymology[]
The name Mimiko is written in kanji/katakana (ミミ子), which has no special meaning except the kanji "子" means "child". However, when part of the name Mimi is written in kanji (美海, 未実, 実夢, 海光, 心美, 美美 or 美々), it could possibly mean:
美海 - "beautiful" (美) (mi) and "sea, ocean" (海) (mi).
未実 - "un-, not yet, hitherto, still, even now, sign of the ram, 1-3PM, eighth sign of Chinese zodiac" (未) (mi) and "fruit, good result, truth" (実) (mi).
実夢 - "fruit, good result, truth" (実) (mi) and "dream, vision" (夢) (mi).
海光 - "sea, ocean" (海) (mi) and "light" (光) (mi).
心美 - "heart, mind, soul" (心) (mi) and "beautiful" (美) (mi).
美美 - "beautiful" (美) (mi) and "beautiful" (美) (mi).
美々 - "beautiful".
Trivia[]
Mimiko has a similar hairstyle as Pippi Longstocking.
Mimiko is similar to Mei from My Neighbor Totoro.
Mimiko's signature trick is doing a handstand, which causes her dress to flop over, revealing her underwear.