Title: Modest Heroes
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Modest_Heroes
--------------------------------------------------
Modest Heroes

















Kanji
ちいさな英雄－カニとタマゴと透明人間


Rōmaji
Chīsana Eiyū: Kani to Tamago to Tōmei Ningen


Directed by
Hiromasa Yonebayashi, Yoshiyuki Momose and Akihiko Yamashita


Produced by
Hiromasa YonebayashiYoshiaki NishimuraIsao Takahata


Written by
Yoshiyuki Momose, Akihiko Yamashita


Screenplay by
Hiromasa Yonebayashi


Story by
Yoshiaki Nishimura


Music by
Masanori Shimada, Takatsugu Muramatsu,Yasutaka Nakata


Art Directed by
Kaori Hino, Uken Ryū


Editing by
Toshihiko Kojima, Yumiko Nakaba


Studio
Studio Ponoc


Production
Dentsu, Nippon Television NetworkStudio Ponoc


Distributed by
Toho


Release date(s)
Jun 19, 2019


Running time
54 minutes


Budget



Box office



Modest Heroes (ちいさな英雄－カニとタマゴと透明人間, Chīsana Eiyū: Kani to Tamago to Tōmei Ningen, lit. "Modest Heroes") is a three-part Japanese animated anthology film produced by Studio Ponoc, which was founded by former members of Studio Ghibli. The film is the first volume in the studio's Ponoc Short Films Theatre anthology, and includes films directed by Hiromasa Yonebayashi, Yoshiyuki Momose, and Akihiko Yamashita.
Isao Takahata was originally slated to write and direct a fourth short for the film, a seven-minute segment based on the Japanese epic "Heike Monogatari." Unfortunately, the short was cancelled when Takahata passed away from lung cancer on April 5, 2018, shortly after the film was announced. It is unknown how much work, if any, Takahata was able to complete on his planned short.

Contents

1 Plot

1.1 "Kanini & Kanino"
1.2 "Life Ain't Gonna Lose"
1.3 "Invisible"




Plot[]
"Kanini & Kanino"[]
Kanini and Kanino are tiny anthropomorphized freshwater crab siblings who live underwater in a nearby stream. Their father, Toto, is taking care of them while their mother, Kaka, has gone away to give birth. When they suddenly find themselves alone, the siblings embark on a dangerous journey to find their father. All of the dialogue is performed in a made-up language.

"Life Ain't Gonna Lose"[]
Shun Yashima is a young boy born with a lethal allergy to eggs. Every day, then, his family focuses on protecting Shun from contact with eggs. Shun has to eat special meals at school, his classmates must be careful not to spit on him and get saliva with egg all over him, and Shun has to take his allergy into consideration when he thinks about going on a school field trip. At the same time, his mother tries to maintain her career as a dance teacher. One day Shun mistakenly consumes egg products when his parents are away from home.

"Invisible"[]
A man struggles with not being seen by those around him. Throughout the day, he is ignored by everyone else, and even begins to lose his physical permanence. An unexpected stranger speaks to him... and then the invisible man suddenly has an opportunity to be a hero.