Title: Nausicaä
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Nausica%C3%A4
--------------------------------------------------
Information


Gallery






Nausicaä






Japanese name
Naushika (Naushika)


Species
New Human


Age
16


Gender
Female


Personality
EmpatheticCompassionateScientifically InquisitiveSelflessSacrificialCharismaticCalmCollectedSpiritually and Psychically Sensitive


First Appearance
Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind


Role
Main character


Voice actor (Japanese)
Sumi Shimamoto


Voice actor (English)
Susan Davis (Princess Zandra)


Voice actor (Disney)
Alison Lohman




For the film, see Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind.
For the manga, see Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga).
I'm not a goddess. I'm just a human being. I want to be friends. My name is Nausicaä, daughter of Jhil of the Valley of the Wind.
—Nausicaä
Nausicaä (ナウシカ Naushika, pronounced [na.uɕika]) [1] is the princess of the Valley of the Wind, a very small nation with fewer than 500 inhabitants (and steadily declining in population) She is the eleventh child of King Jhil, and the only one to live to maturity. She assumes the responsibilities of her ill father and succeeds him to the throne over the course of the story. Nausicaä is rarely seen without her Mehve or her companion, Teto the fox-squirrel. Some believe her to be "The Blue Clad One" from Dorok legends, a prediction that comes true.
Pushed by her love for others and for life itself, Nausicaä studies the ecology of her world to understand the Sea of Corruption, a system of monstrous flora and fauna which came into being after the Seven Days of Fire. Her magnetic personality attracts admiration and adoration from nearly all those who meet her. Her empathy allows her to communicate with many animals. Nausicaä joins a war between adjacent territories of the remaining inhabitable land. Assuming command of the Valley's small force sets her off on a journey that will alter the course of human existence.

Contents

1 Physical Description
2 Personality
3 Manga

3.1 Early years
3.2 Arrival of the Torumekians
3.3 Departure for War
3.4 Battle of the Acid Lakes
3.5 The Dorok Principalities


4 Anime
5 Character and Abilities
6 Behind the Scenes
7 Quotes
8 Trivia
9 References


Physical Description[]
Nausicaa is a beautiful  young woman with short auburn hair styled in a bob cut light greyish blue eyes and fair skin she has a slender petite build but is extremely agile and fairly strong. She typically wears a dress-like military style shirt,  beige trousers, and long leather boots. She later wears a pink dress gifted to her by a girl from Pejite that is dyed blue from the Ohmus blood, but is seen wearing her original outfit again at the end of the film.  

Personality[]
Although a skilled  fighter, Nausicaä is humane, noble, brave, heroic, protective, sweet, serious, caring, kind and peace-loving. However, she is by no means a pushover; after witnessing the death of her father she attacks his killers in a fit of rage, an action that horrifies her later. She has an unusual gift for communicating with the giant insects and other creatures and is noted for her empathy and gentleness toward animals, humans, and other beings.
In the manga, Nausicaä is viewed with religious veneration and deified status the Worm Handlers. After being proclaimed a "guardian deity" by Selm, she asserts her common humanity to emphasize that she is not a perfect and distant savior but a person who shares in the same struggles and physical limitations as they do. She refuses to be placed above a group that is otherwise socially "defiled" or looked down upon, choosing instead to stand with them as an equal.
An intelligent girl, Nausicaä frequently explores the toxic wasteland which surrounds the kingdoms, and conducts scientific experiments in an attempt to define the true nature and origins of the toxic world in which she lives. Her explorations are facilitated by her skill at "windriding;" flying with an advanced glider-like craft called Mehve, equipped with a jet-engine.

Manga[]
Early years[]
    A young Nausicaä with a baby Ohmu  
Nausicaä moved to the Valley of the Wind with her family when she was very young. Her mother had died around that time as well. She has a close relationship with her father Jihl and tries to help him as his health declines due to the Valley's proximity to the Toxic Jungle. She is his eleventh child and the only one to live to maturity.
Eventually, Nausicaä starts training to fly her Mehve, which she becomes very skilled at. She also spends a lot of time in the Toxic Jungle and experiments with its plants to find out why Jhil's health is suffering. As part of this, she secretely grows forest plants in uncorrupted soil, discovering that it is not deadly.

Arrival of the Torumekians[]
 File:Nausicaä Manga.webp  Nausicaä with an adult Ohmu  
On one of her expeditions into the Rotwood, Nausicaä discovered the shell of an Ohmu. These are very valuble as building material. After retrieving the eye-shell, she feels the anger of the forest creatures. When she investigates, she finds Lord Yupa being chased by several forest creatures, including the Ohmu that had shed its shell. Nausicaä leads Yupa to the valley, where he reports on the situation in the world abroad.
Nausicaä goes on patrol with the Valley Gunship, newly refitted with the Ohmu eye-piece, but once again feels the forest's anger. This time it is a brig from Pejite. The brig crash-lands, killing everyone except for princess Lastelle. Lastelle gives Nausicaä a stone before she dies though Nausicaä is not aware of the stone's significance. She warns Nausicaä that Torumekia invaded Pejitei, even though they are formally allied and that the Torumekians want the stone.
Shortly after Nausicaä and the Valley's inhabitants have time to ponder the meaning of Lastelle's arrival, Kushana and her Torumekian soldiers arrive. Kushana asks for the stone, but Nausicaä wants her to leave the valley. Kushana eventually relents. Nausicaä is forced to burn part of their fields, as the Torumekians contaminated it by bringing miasma.

Departure for War[]
Soon, the Torumekians went to war against the Dorok principalities. Kushana called for the States of the Periphery to follow the ancient treaties and assemble at an aerial rendezvous point. Jhil is confined to his bed from the poisoning, so he talks to Nausicaä and decide she should go in his stead. This worries Lord Yupa, but even Yupa realizes this is the only option. Nausicaä leaves with Mito and the Valley Gunship and they travel to the rendevouz point on the edge of the Toxic Jungle. On the way they meet people from other periphery states.
At the rendezvous point, Kushana takes control and starts heading across the Toxic Jungle. They are soon attacked by Asbel of Pejite, however, who destroys several ships and separates the Valley gunship from the brig. Nausicaä wants to rescue the other people from her valley and follows them into the Toxic Jungle. There they land in an Ohmu nest, but she manages to calm and communicate with them. She has the barge reconnected, but wants to head out to rescue Asbel, who has enraged the insects. She takes her Mehve and finds him in deep cavities under the forest.
Asbel discovered her identity and takes the control stone, which Nausicaä had been carrying. Nausicaä wakes up, discovers the petrified forest and guesses that the Toxic Jungle exists to clense the lands of human pollution. Asbel and Nausicaä escape, only to be captured by Doroks of the Mani tribe.

Battle of the Acid Lakes[]
Nausicaä meets the Holy One, leader of the Mani Tribe, and Ketcha, who speaks the common tongue. She realizes that Kushana has been betrayed and begs to be able to negotiate a peaceful solution. The Holy One disagrees and Nausicaä tries to escape. Asbel decides to stay behind to enable Nausicaä to travel faster. Nausicaä joins the Valley Gunship and alerts them of the impending destruction through the herd of Ohmu. The gunship goes to warn Kushana's army, while Nausicaä decides to take on the Dorok flying jar that is baiting the Ohmu herd with a wounded Ohmu.
Nausicaä confronts the Dorok soldiers and forces them to drop the Ohmu larvae on an island in the acid lake. She communicates with the Ohmu and tries to ease its pain. Meanwhile, the Ohmu herd crushes Kushana's army and several groups of Mani Tribe warriors and only Kushana's ship manages to escape. The Holy One is appalled at this massacre. Nausicaä begs Kushana to take the Ohmu larvae to the herd and Kushana relents, since Nausicaä knows the location of the control stone. Nausicaä communicates with the Ohmu herd and they depart for the "Southern Forest", which they believe is in need of them. The Holy One is reminded of a pre-Holy Empire prophecy by the scene, believing Nausicaä to be a savior that restores balance between humanity and the nature.
The Valley Gunship decides to return to the Valley of the Wind, but Nausicaä decides to continue south with Kushana as she sees the Ohmu herd heading south as a sign of bad things to come.

The Dorok Principalities[]
Kushana's Corvette reaches Dorok, which is in a state of war. They discover a village being burned by Torumekian troops. Landing, they discover the entire population dead of miasma inhalation except for two babies. Nausicaä rescues them (over Kurotowa's objections). The town well had been occupied by Hamushi, attracted by miasma. Although the insect takes Nausicaä into its mouth, the Ohmu blood that stains her clothes protects her from being eaten.
Travelling further from the Toxic Jungle they reach the city of Sapata, a Dorok town, occupied by the Torumekian third army, but besieged by Dorok infantry and artillery. The third army is loyal to Kushana, but is being poorly led by her older brother. Kushana breaks the siege, to fly into to city to take command. Inside, Nausicaä discovers the Dorok townspeople are being held captive, to be sold as slaves. She asks Kushana for their release. Kushana agrees only on the condition that Nausicaä fights alongside her.
Meanwhile Miralupa the brother of the Dorok Emperor has joined the besieging troops but must bath to repair his skin. A skilful warrior monk named Charuka tends to him. Kushana plans to break out from the city, destroy the Dorok artillery and buy time for an escape to be made from the city. Nausicaä rides with her as promised, and displays her usefulness in war by using siren shells to panic the Dorok War beasts used as cavellry. Nausicaä's horseclaw, Kai, is mortally wounded, by troops lead by Charuka. Both Charuka and Miralupa believe Nausicaä to be the "blue-clad one" of prophesy.
Having secured the release of the Dorok prisoners, Nausicaä leaves Sapata and heads deeper into Dorok territory, coming to a temple by an oasis. A small boy appears. The boy, Chikuku leads Nausicaä to a tomb in which the bodies of many monks are sitting as if in meditation. One monk is still alive and communicates telepathically with Nausicaä. He tells her of the prophesy of the blue-clad one, and of the secrets stored in the crypts of Shuwa. He foretells the destruction and purification of the world. Nausicaä refuses to give up, believing that life is worth saving. A Hebikera flies overhead, and Nausicaä realizes that the oasis will soon be overcome by miasma. Returning to the tomb, she finds the monk dead. She leaves on Mehve with Chikuku.
Airborne, she discovers a Dorok ship being overcome by fungus. The fungus is different from the forest trees. In fact it has been bred by Doroks to use as a weapon. But spores became unstable, and are consuming the ship which was carrying them. This ship also holds Miralupa and Charuka. Nausicaä lands on the upper deck, and once again does battle with the disembodied spirit of Miralupa. The battle is ended inconclusively by the attack of insects, and Miralupa is able to escape. Nausicaä joins Charuka battling the mutant mould. However the ship is lost and Nausicaä, Chikuku and Charuka flee on Mehve. The surviving mold reaches the ground and starts to spread.
Charuka debates with himself on whether to kill Nausicaä, but she is protected by Chikuku. When a Dorok Flying Jar happens to pass, Charuka takes Nausicaä and Chikuku up with him to a Dorok flying fortress, that also is carrying fungal spores. Knowing the fungus not to be stable, Nausicaa drops the reactivating fungal mass out the window. Charuka is now convinced that Miralupa's plan to use forest fungus as a weapon is fundamentally insecure, and decides to support Nausicaä's plan and stay to defend the people.

Anime[]
    Nausicaä exploring the forest near the Sea of Corruption.  
Nausicaä is the agile and cheerful young 16-year-old princess of the peaceful Valley of the Wind. Although a skillful fighter, she is humane and peace-loving. She has an unusual gift for communicating with the giant insects (particularly with the Ohmu, the gigantic, armored, caterpillar-like insects who are the most intelligent creatures in the Sea of Decay). She is also noted for her empathy toward animals, humans, and other beings. An intelligent girl, and inspired by the mentor figure Yupa, a wandering samurai type possessed of great wisdom, Nausicaä frequently explores the Sea of Decay and conducts scientific experiments in an attempt to define the true nature and origins of the toxic world in which she lives. Her explorations are facilitated by her skill at "windriding"; flying with an advanced glider-like craft with a jet assist called a möwe. Yupa is searching for the mythological man in blue who, according to the legend, will appear surrounded by a sea of gold and reunite the people and nature.

    Nausicaä saves the reckless Asbel from destruction.  
One evening, an airship (a kind of large cargo airplane) from the kingdom of Tolmekia travels through the Valley. Noticing it's off course Nausicaä tries to guide the ship. Unfortunately, the ship is attacked by insects. Despite her warnings the ship crashes into the cliffs near the sea. Nausicaä tries to rescue a hand-cuffed girl of her age from the burning wreck, but she dies after telling that she is Princess Lastelle from the kingdom Pejite and that the cargo of the airship must be destroyed. The airship's cargo turns out to be a God Warrior (kyoshinhei embryo, Giant Warrior in the English release), one of the lethal, giant, biological weapons used in the ancient war which caused the days of fire. There is also an insect in there and it calls for help so the Princess calms it down and helps it fly home, she sees that an Ohmu had heard its calls but returns to the jungle.
It is later revealed that the God Warrior embryo was unearthed by Pejite, but it was stolen by the more powerful state of Tolmekia (Tormekia in the manga). Lord Yupa explains to Meeto that these warriors were once used during the days of The Seven Days of Fire but eventually they all disappeared or died. The very next day, the Tolmekians, under the leadership of Princess Kushana, invade the Valley, kill the king to secure and revive the Warrior. When discovering the scene of her father's murder, an enraged Nausicaä kills dozens of Tolmekian soldiers and even injuring Kurotowa in revenge (and in self-defense) before Yupa intervenes to help snap the princess out of her blind rage; she later expresses shock and sadness that her rage could drive her to kill. Kushana explains that the God Warrior will be used to burn the Sea of Decay, although Obaba, an old and blind Valley woman warns them that attempting so will only enrage the Ohmu and lead to more deaths. She explains that 1,000 years ago many people tried to destroy the toxic jungles but they enraged the Ohmu. As a result of this the Ohmu stampeded across the land in a blind rage destroying cities and other parts of the land killing many people. Eventually the Ohmu died of starvation and their bodies became parts of the toxic jungle. If the Tolmekians do the same, they too would lose their land and lives. At first all the people of the Valley stand up after learning that the king was killed, Naüsicca pleads with everyone not to fight as she cannot bear to see anyone else harmed. The Tolmekians decide to stay in the valley, mainly on the account that they now have the Giant Warrior but also, they have no ship big enough to carry it back.
Kushana attempts to return to Tolmekia, with Nausicaä and several others as hostages. Before their departure, Nausicaä reveals to Yupa a hidden garden of jungle plants, that are not toxic because they are growing in sand and water from a deep well. Nausicaä explains that the jungle is only toxic due to the toxic soil that is everywhere on the surface of the earth. She had hoped that by studying the plants she would be able to cure her father's illness but because he has died she has to stop her studies and has already shut off the water and all the plants will die, she then cries in Lord Yupa's arms. Before leaving, many little girls give Nausicaä a bag of Chicko nuts which they picked for her. They are sad that she is leaving but she promises the girls she will come back. The airships with Kushana and Nausicaä are attacked by a Pejitan gunship and several of the ships are forced to make an emergency landing in the Sea of Decay. There, Nausicaä communicates with several ohmu and discovers that the pilot of the Pejitan gunship is still alive. With the help of her glider, Nausicaä rescues the pilot from a swarm of enraged insects. However, they crash and end up in a strange, non-toxic world that is below the Sea of Decay; the plants in the Sea of Decay purify the polluted soil, and in this way produce clean water and sand, which remains hidden in this underground world. The pilot turns out to be Asbel of Pejite, the twin brother of princess Lastelle.
Nausicaä and Asbel return to Pejite, which turns out to be destroyed after the Pejite people lured the insects from the Sea of Decay into their town in order to kill the occupying Tolmekian forces. While Asbel confronts the Pejite Mayor for destroying their home, he assures Asbel they can rebuild. During this some people reveal that they will do the same thing to the Valley of the Winds in order to recapture the God Warrior. This shocks Nausicaä who calls them horrible people for wanting to kill her people. She is told by the Mayor that once a stampede of Ohmn has begun, nothing can stop it but also firmly states that with the Warrior in the Tolmekian’s possession would be an unimaginable fate. To prevent Nausicaä from “alerting the Tolmekians,” they capture her. Meanwhile, the Valley of the Winds forest is infested with surviving spores. They burn the spores as best they can and all the remaining trees are infested with poison. Obaba tells them they must burn down the forest or they will die. Many are upset as the forest protected them from the toxic jungle and they wish that the Tolmekians had never come. Sometime later a Tolmeikian ship discovers the Pejite airship. Nausicaä is in a cell but she escapes with the help of Asbel, his mother and a Pejite girl who temporarily swaps clothes with Nausicaä to take her place in the cell. Before she leaves they apologize for the pain they caused, Nausicaä goes below deck with Asbel who helps her to launch. Unfortunately the Tomekian ship attacks and when they attack the airship Asbel tells Nausicaä to leave and get back home, she manages to escape and lures the Tomeikians away and Meito and Yupa arrive and shoot down the airship. With a gunship, she returns to the Valley, but along the way they encounter an enormous herd of enraged Ohmu who are on their way towards an injured baby Ohm, which is used by the Pejite people to lure the Ohmu to the Valley to retrieve the warrior. Nausicaä is shot by the soldiers but releases the baby Ohmu and gains its trust and orders the Pejite soldiers to take her and the baby to where the heard is heading.

     Nausicaä stands along against the rampaging Ohmu.  
In the meantime, the Tolmekians try stopping the herd with armored vehicles they brought with them but to no effect, later Kushana arrives with the God Warrior to stop the Ohmu herd, but the Warrior, woken too early, dies in the process. However, Nausicaä, with the baby Ohmu, is finally able to stop the Ohmu herd, but she is overrun and slain in the process. In front of the Valley people and the Tolmekian forces. The people cry at the loss of the princess, while the Ohmu's rage dies down and they use their gold-colored tentacles to revive Nausicaä, whose dress has turned blue by the baby Ohmu's blood; thus Nausicaä turns out to be the mythological "man" in blue mentioned in the beginning. The film ends with fragments of a future where people and insects live in peace with each other. The toxic jungle eventually becomes cleaner and the world is becoming normal again. The Valley itself begins to prosper and over time the land itself begins to grow again.

Character and Abilities[]
Nausicaä is the beloved Princess of the Valley of the Wind. She has dedicated herself to help her people, including trying to find a cure for the miasma poison that so many suffer from. She is brave, courageous, wise, intelligent, loyal, honest, kind, compassionate, and everything that one looks for in a true heroine. She stands tall against all adversaries and is willing to sacrifice her life in order to save those around her. Her fencing and flight maneuvering ability exceeds that of the enemy forces. Throughout the movie, she manifests the ability to wield a variety of weapons including a dagger, a sword, a rifle, and explosives used when extracting an Ohmu eye. Although she doesn't tolerate violence, she only attacks and kills when enraged, or left with no other choice.
Nausicaä has psychic powers, abilities which include telepathy, [2] psychic force, when she repulses the slugworms, [3] and communication with plants, when she talks to the Oldest Tree in the Valley. [4] After being saved by Ohmu after aiding Asbel, Nausicaä dreams of childhood when she tried to save an Ohmu larvae. [5] Nausicaä gives the control stone over to Asbel. [6]
Nausicaä is naturally graceful, benevolent, and charismatic, often inspiring devotion in others, whether it's human, animals, insects, friends, foes, and possibly, even mother nature itself.

Behind the Scenes[]
     Hayao Miyazaki preferred Bernard Evslin's interpretation of Nausicaä in his book Gods, Demigods  & Demons: Encyclopedia of Greek Mythology over the version seen in Homer's Odyssey.  
In an Animage interview on the origins of Nausicaä, Hayao Miyazaki explains that her name is the name of a Phaeacian princess who appears in the Odyssey. He first learned of her from Bernard Evslin's book Gods, Demigods  & Demons: Encyclopedia of Greek Mythology (published as part of Shakai Shisosha's Modern Educational Pocketbooks series translated by Minoru Kobayashi), and was instantly attracted to her. After he read a novelization of Homer's Odyssey, he found it lacking because, in that version, Nausicaä wasn't nearly as appealing as she was in Evslin's book.
Miyazaki describes Nausicaä as a "fleet-footed, fanciful, beautiful girl. She loves her harp and singing more than any suitor or ordinary happiness, and her extraordinary sensitivity leads her to delight in playing amid nature. When Odysseus is shipwrecked and injured, rather than being afraid of his bloodied form, Nausicaä treats his wounds. And it is Nausicaä who melts his heart with her improvised Odysseus's ship sail out of sight. According to one legend, Nausicaä watches Odysseus's ship sail out of sight. According to one legend, Nausicaä thereafter never married and spent her years wandering from court to court as the first traveling female minstrel, singing about Odysseus and his voyage of adventure."
Indeed, as Evslin wrote at the end of his section on Nausicaa, "Whatever the case, she had a special place in the heart of the weather-beaten voyager."[7]
Miyazaki modeled Nausicaä after the The Lady Who Loved Insects (虫めづる姫君 , Mushi-mezuru Himegimi), a twelfth-century Japanese tale of one who defies social convention and breaches the decorum expected of a Heian court lady. At a time when most girls would have shaved their eyebrows and stained their teeth black, this was most unusual.  It is one of ten short stories in the collection Tsutsumi Chūnagon Monogatari (Tales of the Tsutsumi Middle Counseler). Miyazaki muses, "In an age of classics like The Tale of Genji or The Pillow Book, there was no way society could tolerate a young noblewoman falling in love with bugs and going around with unshaved eyebrows. Even as a child, I was always extraordinarily curious about what happened to her later."
Shuna from Journey of Shuna is considered to be prototypical to Nausicaä.
Although a skillful fighter, Miyazaki's Nausicaä is humane and peace-loving. She has an unusual gift for communicating with the giant insects, and is noted for her empathy toward animals, humans, and other beings. An intelligent girl, Nausicaä frequently explores the toxic wasteland which surrounds the kingdoms, and conducts scientific experiments in an attempt to define the true nature and origins of the toxic world in which she lives. Her explorations are facilitated by her skill at "windriding;" flying with an advanced glider-like craft called Mehve, equipped with a jet-engine.
Nausicaä is described as being a "strong young female lead drawn strongly from the shoujo tradition", who "takes charge" of her own life, with a "brave and wholesome" mind, and as "one of the best examples of a truly "empowered" female." Stig Høgset found the too-perfect portrayal of Nausicaä to be unrealistic. Early in the story, she kills the warriors that killed her father, which Susan J. Napier described as, "genuinely shocking," and Kaori Yoshida points to as evidence of Nausicaä representing "traditional masculinity rather than femininity". Nausicaä later "comes to regret her vengeance" and becomes a diplomat to prevent further wars between the different states. Although Nausicaä is a warrior, Nausicaä does "reassuringly cute" actions such as taming Teto and calling things "pretty", which contrasts her with San of Princess Mononoke. Thomas Zoth regards Nausicaä as "Miyazaki's archetypal heroine", and notes shades of her in Ashitaka, San and Lady Eboshi of Princess Mononoke.
Opinion is divided as to whether Nausicaä is sexualised or not - Napier notes that Nausicaä's relationship with Asbel is "potentially erotic", but Kaori Yoshida says that Nausicaä's body "is not the typical kind designed to stimulate" the male gaze. The quality of tapes on early fansubs lead to the rumour that Nausicaä does not wear any pants. Yoshida presents Hiromi Murase's theory that Nausicaä represents a post-oedipal mother figure. Susan J. Napier and Patrick Drazen note a parallel between the character of Kushana, the rival warrior princess, and that of Nausicaä - Napier describes Kushana as Nausicaä's "shadow", noting that Kushana is not shown with any "alleviating, "feminine" virtues" as Nausicaä is, but that they share the same tactical brilliance. Drazen describes this as a "feminine duality". Miyazaki has described the two characters as being "two sides of the same coin", but Kushana has "deep, physical wounds".
Nausicaä is presented as a messiah, and also acts on an ideology of how to interact with the natural world. Her powers are presented as proof of the "rightness" of her mode of thought". Unlike other characters, who avoid or try to ignore the forest, Nausicaä is scientifically and beatifically interested in the forest. When the god soldier is activated, he chooses Nausicaä to be his "mother" and asks her who she wants him to kill. Marc Hairston considers this to be a recurring theme throughout the manga, that Nausicaä is given power and that she is told to make difficult decisions. In 2000, Nausicaä placed eleventh in an Animax poll of favourite anime characters. The first daughter of Jean Giraud is named after the character, as are an alien species in Star Trek: The Next Generation. The character Nakiami from Xam'd: Lost Memories has been noted to bear many similarities to Nausicaä.

 File:Miyazaki with Nausicaä's VA.png  Hayao Miyazaki alongside Sumi Shimamoto, the actress who voiced Nausicaä, celebrating the film's success in September 1984  
Nausicaä is voiced in Japanese by Sumi Shimamoto, who got the part after having played Clarisse in Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro and impressed Miyazaki. Patrick Drazen praised Shimamoto's acting in a scene where Nausicaä stops an insect from diving into an acidic pool by getting in its way. She is burned by the acid and she screams. Her English-language voice was performed by Alison Lohman.
History of the name: Nausicaa- Since her name means "burner of ships", it seems right as Nausicaä did destroy a few flying ships in the movie.  

Quotes[]
"I'm not a goddess. I'm just a human being. I want to be friends. My name is Nausicaä, daughter of Jhil of the Valley of the Wind."
"It's so beautiful. It's hard to believe these spores could kill me."
"Ohmu, go back to your jungle. This is not your world."
"You must be tired after running from that Ohmu."
"There's nothing to fear. See? Nothing to fear. Right? You were just a little scared, weren't you?"
"I irrigated this chamber using water drawn from deep underground by the castle windmill. I used soil drawn from there as well. I found that with clean water and soil, the plants from the toxic jungle aren't poisonous. All the poison is in the soil. Even the topsoil in our valley is polluted. But...I don't understand. Who could have polluted the entire earth?"
"I had no idea my rage could drive me to kill..."
"No more killing, it has to stop!"
"Stop it! All this killing must stop! You must stop!"
"What are you so afraid of? You act like a scared little fox-squirrel"
"Every one of us relies on water from the wells, because mankind has polluted all the lakes and rivers. but do you know why the well water is pure? It's because the trees of the wastelands purify it! And you plan to burn the trees down? You must not burn down the toxic jungle! You should have left the giant warrior beneath the earth!... Asbel, tell them how the jungle evolved and how the insects are gaurding it so we won't pollute the earth again. Asbel please!"
"Suffering and tragedy and folly will not disappear in a purified world. They are part of humanity. That is why even in a world of suffering there can also be joy and shining light".
"We are birds who, though we may spit up blood will go flying beyond that morning, on and on!".
“Don’t be angry. Don’t be frightened. I’m not your foe. I’m sorry. I can’t ask for your forgiveness. It’s too cruel.”
Trivia[]
Nausicaa was believed for several years to have been voiced by June Foray in the New World Pictures dub, which changed her name to Zandra; Foray herself denied playing Zandra when asked by a fan who sent her a VHS copy.
Maki Oyamada, a character who appeared in Farewell My Beloved Lupin from Lupin the 3rd Part II, and the daughter of Dr. Oyamada who originally created the robots, shares some similarities to Nausicaä. Sumi Shimamoto also voiced both Maki Oyamada and Clarisse d'Cagliostro prior to Nausicaa.
The Princess Who Loved Insects had also inspired Kaguya's personality especially when she was small in The Tale of the Princess Kaguya.
References[]


↑ DE 1a pg 7 (first appearance), pg 21 (identified)

↑ DE 1 pg 11

↑ DE 1 pg 57

↑ DE 1 pg 67

↑ DE 1 pg 127/128

↑ DE 1 pg 130

↑ "Starting Point (1979-1996)", Hayao Miyazaki




Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind


Characters


Main Cast

Nausicaä | Teto | Gol & Gikuri


Valley of the Wind

Jihl | Yupa | Mito | Obaba


Pejite

Mayor of Pejite | Asbel | Lastelle | Asbel & Lastelle's Mother | Pejite Girl


Torumekian Empire

Kushana | Kurotowa


Miscellaneous


Locations

Valley of the Wind | Nausicaä's Tower | Pejite | Toxic Jungle | Torumekia


Mechanical Designs

Dreadnought | God Warrior | Mehve


Creatures

Fox Squirrel | Hebikera | Ohmu


Glossary

Miasma | Seven Days of Fire








 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater