Title: Pandane to Tamago Hime
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Pandane_to_Tamago_Hime
--------------------------------------------------
Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess




Japanese release poster


Kanji
パン種とタマゴ姫


Rōmaji
Pandane to Tamago Hime


Directed by
Hayao Miyazaki


Produced by
Toshio Suzuki


Screenplay by
Hayao Miyazaki


Based on
The Harvesters by Pieter Bruegel the Elder


Music by
Joe Hisaishi


Cinematography
Atsushi Okui


Editing by
Takeshi Seyama


Production
Studio Ghibli


Distributed by
Toho


Release date(s)
November 20, 2010 (Japan)


Running time
12 minutes


Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess  (パン種とタマゴ姫 , Pandane to Tamago Hime) is a 12-minute animated film written and directed by Hayao Miyazaki and premiered on November 20, 2010. It is the eighth in a series of twelve short films screened exclusively at the Saturn Theater in the basement of the Ghibli Museum in Mitaka, Japan and Cinema Orion in Ghibli Park. 
It was Miyazaki's latest project following the release of Ponyo (2008) and his next short film after Mizugumo Monmon or Water Spider Monmon (2006). According to the Animation Director of this short, Kitarō Kōsaka, this work was meant to "return to the origin of animation". This meant that number of drawings rose to an average of 190 per animated cut, which was the highest number of any Ghibli works at the time.
Miyazaki conceived the idea for the film from the painting The Harvesters by Pieter Bruegel the Elder. The music was composed by Joe Hisaishi and consists of a set of Baroque variations on the Folia theme by Antonio Vivaldi.

Contents

1 Plot
2 Characters
3 Behind the Scenes

3.1 Inspiration
3.2 Production


4 Music
5 Merchandise
6 Credits
7 References
8 External links
9 Navigation


Plot[]
    Baba Yaga holding the unbreakable egg while having breakfast. She uses her ribbon to give the Egg Princess life.  Once upon a time, a witch named Baba Yaga lived a life of isolation in a watermill at the back of a thorny forest. She returns home having collected a basket full of eggs, then cooks them in a massive pan. Try as she might, one egg could not be cracked. She takes one her ribbons and grants life to the unbroken egg, calling it "Egg Princess". Time passes, and the young egg princess is forced into indentured servitude working in the witch's mill and kitchen. She's kept under the watchful eye of the witch, whose grotesque appetite fuels her obsession with creating bonemeal. She even taunts the young Tamago with an apple with a worm.
One night, the leaven that was kneaded by the captive Egg suddenly comes to life and begins to move. She grants Mr. Dough sight by offering it a few berries as eyes, and helps it escape the watermill. Baba Yaga awakens and senses something is amiss. 
Egg Princess and Mr. Dough flee the thorny forest and through the wheat fields as villagers in a nearby town toil. Mr. Dough gains the ability to run and enjoys his stroll through the countryside. Baba Yaga searches far and wide for her ward, wreaking havoc among the laborers. The pair disguise themselves as a spoke in a wheel in a caravan of harvested wheat returning to town's mills.

    Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess flee from the clutches of the Baba Yaga.  The town is filled with activity as they mill their harvest. Mr. Dough disguises himself as a laborer, but they are soon spotted by the witch from up on high. Baba Yaga flies down and wears a hat as she searches for the two. She stumbles upon a tent where villagers make bread. She tears through the crowd and captures Mr. Dough, then takes him into a baker's home where she dissects him into pieces of bread. The Egg Princess quickly pieces Mr. Dough back together, whom the witch seemingly allows. Once completed, Baba Yaga shoves Mr. Dough into the oven where he bakes and is turned into a large humanoid bread man.
They are soon interrupted by royal guards, and along come the Egg King and Queen. The now large Mr. Dough then takes the Egg Princess from the witch and places her upon his shoulder for her protection. The villagers, along with the royalty among them begin to cheer. Baba Yaga seethes in anger, and Mr. Dough offers a part of his chest for her consumption. She snatches the piece and devours it in frustration, then quickly leaves the scene. She sticks her tongue out in disgust, and flies off. Egg Princess and Mr. Dough then walk off into the sunset waving goodbye as credits roll.

Characters[]
Egg Princess
An egg brought to life by the witch Baba Yaga. She is forced into a life of servitude until she meets Mr. Dough. Together, they escape to the nearby kingdom hoping to start a new life.
Mr. Dough
A magical dough brought to life by magic. The Egg Princess helps him get on his feet and the two narrowly escape the clutches of the witch.
Baba Yaga
The greedy witch lives in a mill by the cliff, away from the rest of society. She discovers the Egg Princess while making an omelet, and forces her to be her servant. She's a very messy eater.
Behind the Scenes[]
Inspiration[]
    An exhibition featuring the influences of the film such as "The Harvesters" painting were on display during its premiere.  This is an animated film written, scripted and directed by Hayao Miyazaki. This was Miyazaki's first work as director since Ponyo released in 2008. It was released as part of his library of short films released at the Mitaka Municipal Animation Museum (also known as the Ghibli Museum of Art in Mitaka) and was the first director's work since Mizugumo Monmon released in 2006.
Miyazaki took inspiration from European landscape paintings and folk language. Miyazaki was also inspired by the 1565 painting The Harvesters by Flemish artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder. When Miyazaki learned that the crop depicted in the painting was rye, he expressed shock that he didn't know and wanted to make a film about the European landscape depicted in the painting.

Production[]
During the film's preview, Kiyofumi Nakajima, director of the Ghibli Museum at the time, explained that it was "a film created by Miyazaki inflating his image in the wake of Bruegel's paintings." According to the Animation Director of this short, Kitarō Kōsaka, this work was meant to "return to the origin of animation". This meant that number of drawings rose to an average of 190 per animated cut, which was the highest number of any Ghibli works at the time. This work's animation has been praised for bringing dynamism to very unusual character designers, making them as if they are indeed, "alive". The film does not have a single line of dialogue, something that has become commonplace among Ghibli's shorts where animation becomes purely the focus of the viewers.

     A Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess display at the Ghibli Museum.  Miyazaki pointed out that references to folk languages in Europe could be seen as Mr. Dough runs away with the Egg Princess, similar to the Japanese folktale Omitsbi Kororin. "I learned that there is a similar story about bread running away in a nation where people eat bread." When I was considering those folktales, he said, "If it was a bread species before it became bread, I wonder if Nebaneva would run away with Gnyagnya..."
The process of making this work, Studio Ghibli introduced a Professional Work Style method.

Music[]
La Folía: Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess Soundtrack (ラ・フォリア「パン種とタマゴ姫」サウンドトラック, Ra Foria "Pandane to Tamago-hime" Saundotorakku) was composed and arranged by Joe Hisaishi, and is based on the D minor variations from Baroque composer Antonio Vivaldi's "La Folia".
Akihiro Miura conducted and Concertmaster Miura Strings performed. The first release of this disc was on the Team Mamma Aiuto label, the series of museum short film soundtracks available for sale only at the Studio Ghibli Museum. A second release with different cover artwork was created on the Tokuma Japan Communications label for sale outside of the museum.[1]

Merchandise[]
     A wide range of merchandise is available in the Mamma Auito shop in the Ghibli Museum.  The characters of Mr. Dough and Egg Princess were heavily merchandised around the time of the short's release. Aside from the standard brochure that came with the other Ghibli short films, this release saw multiple figures, keychains, pins, postcards. They also sold a carton of eggs fashioned as characters in the film, including the Egg King, Queen and their soldiers. 
Hayao Miyazaki himself would use the Egg Princess and Mr. Dough in multiple occasions, cameoing in various comics and exhibition art. During the film's release, the Ghibli Museum created a large display of said characters, and a comic featuring the two describe the various kinds of grain, rye and even bread making process.

Credits[]


Credit

Staff


Director, Screenplay
Hayao Miyazaki


Animation Director
Kitarō Kōsaka


Original Drawing
Atsuko Tanaka, Kenichi Yamada, Hideaki Furuya, Shogo Furuya, Makiko Ogura, Yasumi Ogura Shoko, Nagasawa Naoko, Kawahara Shiori, Fujisawa Akiyo, Okuda Yui, Osaki Keng,o Takehana Takeshi, Honda Taichi, Kitada Atsuko, Itagaki Atsuko


Color Design
Michiyo Yasuda, Yukie Tamura


Video Check
Hitomi Hateno


Art Director
Yoji Takeshige


Video
Akiko Teshima, Mayumi Omura, Rie Nakagomi, Saito Masaya, Alexandra Waeraufu, Minoru Ohashi, Kaori Fujii, Yamada Shinichiro, Tadashi Megumi, Mariko Matsuo, Atsushi Tamura, Yokota Higaki, Fumie Konno, Masayo Takahashi, also Arai good stone corner, Sunabi Tomoko, Miura Masako, Akita Atsuta, Saiwai Hisashi, YoJiro Andong, Ota KoromoYoshi, Shima Sachiko, Sugiura Matsuura, Yoshie Noguchi, Tomoyo Nishida, Emi Tamura, Naoya Wada, Kasumi Yagi, Azuma Seiko, Makita Kiyoko, Yayoi Toki, Keiko Tomizawa, Maya Fujimori, Tomoko Fukui, Yohei Nakano, Tanitaira Kumiko, Yukari YAMAURA, Nakazato Masakiyo, Koyama Masami, Yukie Kaneko, Mai Akane, Rie Eyama, Rie Fukui, Otani Kumiko


Background
Takashi Omori, Yoichi Takamatsu, Yoichi Nishikawa, Shiho Sato, Satoko Nakamura, Izumi Muta, Yumi Ishii


Finish
Kanako Takasugi, Naomi Mori, Hiroaki Ishii, Kazuko Karube, Junya Saito, Rie Kojo, Eiko Matsushima, Yuu Kashima, Takeshi Nakamura, Yuko Watanabe, Yuki Komatsu, T2 Studio, Kumi Nanjo, Akiko Shimizu, Yoshimi Shibata, Natsumi Watanabe, Natsuko Inohara, Yukiko Kawamata


Producer
Toshio Suzuki


Animation Cooperation
Anime Toro Toro, Studio Takuranke


Foley
Mika Yamaguchi


Music
Joe Hisaishi


References[]

↑ Nausicaa Wiki on "La Folia"


External links[]
 Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess on Anime News Network
 Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess at the Internet Movie Database  
Pandane no tamago hime on Wikipedia
Navigation[]






 V • T • E    Credits





Credits




Founders

Hayao Miyazaki (Director) •  Isao Takahata (Director) •  Toshio Suzuki (Producer) •   Yasuyoshi Tokuma (Executive Producer)





Notable Staff

Steve Alpert (Overseas Promotion Manager) •  Hideaki Anno (Director) •  Masashi Ando (Animator) •  Makiko Futaki (Animator) •  Hitomi Tateno (Animation Check) •  Toru Hara (Producer) •  Takeshi Inamura (Animator) •  Katsuya Kondō (Animation Director) •  Yoshifumi Kondō (Animation Director) •  Koji Hoshino (President) •  Megumi Kagawa (Animator) •  Yoshinori Kanada (Animator) •  Kitarō Kōsaka (Director) •  Kazuo Komatsubara (Art Director) •  Goro Miyazaki (Director) •  Tomomi Mochizuki (Director) •  Hiroyuki Morita (Director)  •  Yoshiyuki Momose (Animation Director) •  Yoshiaki Nishimura (Producer) •  Atsushi Okui (Director of Photography) •  Kazuo Oga (Background Artist) •  Shinsuke Nonaka (Production Affairs Manager) •  Kaoru Mano (Titles) •  Keiko Niwa (Screenwriter) •  Reiko Okuyama (Animator) •  Seiji Okuda (Director) •  Takeshi Seyama (Director) •  Masako Shinohara (Animator) •  Atsushi Takahashi (Storyboard) •  Yohei Takamatsu (Art Director) •  Atsuko Tanaka (Key Animator) •  Yôji Takeshige (Art Director) Kazuhide Tomonaga (Animator) •  Yasuo Uragami (Sound Director) •  Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Sound Director) •  Akihiko Yamashita (Animator Director) •  Michiyo Yasuda (Color Designer) •  Hiromasa Yonebayashi (Director) •  Nizô Yamamoto (Background Artist) •  Kenichi Yoshida (Animator) •  Noboru Yoshida (Art Director) •  Ushiko (Cat)





Music

Joe Hisaishi •  Michio Mamiya •  Yuji Nomi





Association

Eiko Kadono (Author) •  Tokiko Kato (Singer) •  John Lasseter (Director) •   Rieko Nakagawa (Author) •  Tatsuo Hori (Author) •  Mamoru Hosoda (Director) •  Yoshie Hotta (Author) •  Yōichi Kotabe (Senior Animator) •  Naohisa Inoue (Artist) •  Keisuke Miyazaki (Son) •  Kenji Miyazawa (Author) •  Yasuji Mori (Animation Director) •  Hideo Ogata (Animage Editor) •  Osamu Sagawa (Friend) •  Ryōtarō Shiba (Author) •  Mamiko Suzuki (Toshio Suzuki's Daughter) •  Mamoru Oshii (Director) •  Yasuo Ōtsuka (Director)





Affiliated Companies

Anime Torotoro •  NHK •  Nippon Animation •  Tokyo Movie Shinsha •  Fuji TV •  Oh! Production •  Pony Canyon •  Tokuma Shoten •  Tokuma International •  Shinchosha Publishing •  Dentsu •  Tohokushinsha Film Corporation •  Mitsubishi •  Studio Kajino •  Studio Ponoc •  Streamline Pictures •  Toei Animation •  Toei Company •  TopCraft •  Shochiku •  Toho •  The Walt Disney Company •  Central Park Media •  Sentai Filmworks •  GKIDS •  Madman Entertainment









 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater