Title: Ponyo (character)
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Ponyo_(character)
--------------------------------------------------
Ponyo / Brunhilde






Species
Fish (formerly)Human (currently)Demi-GoddessDemi witch


Age
5 years


Gender
Female


First Appearance
Ponyo


Voice actor (Japanese)
Yuria Nara


Voice actor (Disney)
Noah Cyrus




For the film, see Ponyo.
Ponyo (ポニョ , Ponyo), named Brunhilde (ブリュンヒルデ, Bryun-Hirude) at birth, is the 5-year old protagonist of the film, Ponyo. She is a goldfish born from the sea goddess mother Granmamare and a human named father Fujimoto. She is known to liked both Sōsuke and ham.

Contents

1 Appearance
2 Personality
3 Plot summary
4 Relationships
5 Quotes
6 Gallery
7 Trivia


Appearance[]
"My name is not Brunhilde! My name is Ponyo!"
—Ponyo denies her birth name.

Ponyo has two forms: her goldfish form and her human form. As a fish, she is cute, but as a little girl, she is magical. In her human form, she small in stature and slightly chubby, and has thick wavy shoulder length salmon-colored red hair, big round expressive dark hazel eyes, a round face a small button nose and fair slightly tan skin and has only two-piece clothing: an adorable little amaranth red dress with puffy sleeves and large, puffy white bloomers and is barefoot all the time.

Personality[]
Ponyo behaves just like a regular five-year-old child: intelligent, adorable, mischievous, and later in the film, sleepy. She's an extrovert, tending to go outside when her father is distracted doing his magic.  She also pleased when Sosuke finds her while he is playing by the sea by his house and frees her from a jar. Again, she pays him by licking his scar, and they bond and become friends.  Ponyo does not like her father at first, which is why she runs away from home at the beginning of the film, and she is also rambunctious, causing trouble around the house after Sosuke adopts her.  Soon, she withdraws magic and decides to live by Sosuke's side as a part of his family. She is a fish at first but becomes more humanlike when Sosuke self-injures his finger and she licks his scar, healing him.
Her favorite food is Ham.

Plot summary[]
Ponyo appears in the beginning of the movie with her sisters as they watch their father perform magic. She swims out into the open ocean and ends up falling asleep inside a jellyfish. Ponyo wakes up to a garbage trawler bearing down on her and gets caught in its net. While she is struggling, she gets her head caught in a glass jar, but manages to slip through the net's holes. She tries in vain to shake the jar off and eventually collapses from exhaustion close to shore.  

     Ponyo falling asleep after she uses her magic.  Sōsuke, a little 5-year-old boy who had come down to play with his toy ship, spots her and retrieves her. He too tries to get the jar off and eventually smashes it against a rock to break it. In the process, he self-injures his thumb, causing it to bleed a bit. Sosuke holds Ponyo and wonders if she is even alive. She suddenly licks the drop of blood off his thumb. He exclaims, "It licked me! It licked me!" At that moment, his mother calls him in so he can go to school, whereas she has to go to work.  
He scrambles up to his house, finds a plastic green bucket, and takes Ponyo with him in the car, but not until Ponyo's father tries to get her back. Being from the ocean, he cannot step onto dry land without shriveling up, unless he has some source of water, so he fills a can that looks like weed killer and sprays it everywhere he walks. Lisa thinks he's a "freak show" and tells him to go away with his "weed killer." He protests that it is not a weed killer but the purest ocean water, but Lisa drives off before he can finish. While they're in the car, Lisa hands Sosuke a sandwich. He proceeds to try and give Ponyo some of the bread. Ponyo turns her nose up at it and instead, grabs the ham, much to Sōsuke and his mother's enjoyment/surprise.  
Lisa drops him off at Himawari Nursery School and proceeds to her job, which is right around the corner and happens to be a nursing home. One of Sōsuke's school buddies, comes out and shows off her new dress before realizing he has something. She tries to see, but Sōsuke attempts to hide Ponyo. Kumiko ends up seeing Ponyo anyways. When she does not go running for a teacher, Sōsuke turns around and lets her see, but Ponyo turns her back on her. Kumiko is offended and calls Ponyo boring, to which Ponyo whirls back around and squirts water in her face as well as dousing her new dress. Kumiko looks down at her dress and starts bawling. Sōsuke takes it as a cue to run.  

     Ponyo causes a huge Tsunami.  He ends up running right outside the nursing home his mother works at. He starts giggling with Ponyo and is heard by some of the elders. He shows them Ponyo and one of them claims that fish with human faces cause tsunamis. Ponyo squirts her and she starts thrashing and yelling "Tsunami!" Sōsuke flees once again and goes back down to the beach while his mother comes out looking for him, demanding him to come back and apologize (even though it was Ponyo who sprayed the woman.) At that moment, Ponyo's father appears and sends two sea monsters to retrieve Ponyo. They successfully retrieve Ponyo and all Sosuke can find is an empty green bucket. He starts crying and wades out even further into the ocean, desperately looking for Ponyo. Lisa spots him and rushes out and grabs him before he can drown. Fujimoto takes Ponyo back to their home in the ocean and seals her in a magical bubble. With the help of her sisters, she breaks free and makes her way to her father's sealed potion room. She gets into it and finds a potion that turns her into a human.  
     Ponyo and Sosuke shove their faces in the water.  She returns to Sōsuke by running on huge waves in the forms of fish alongside his car as he is coming home from school. Sosuke sees her and watches in awe. A huge storm breaks loose because according to Fujimoto, the world is becoming unbalanced because of Ponyo. Ponyo ends up falling off and plummeting back into the ocean. Lisa stops the car at Sosuke's request and they look for her, while Lisa tries to convince Sosuke that there was no little girl. As they pull into the driveway, Ponyo somehow comes back holding Sosuke's green bucket. Sosuke and Lisa stare at her as she runs over to Sosuke and hugs him. This convinces Sosuke it really is her. Lisa takes them inside and starts to try to dry Ponyo off when she realizes Ponyo is completely dry. Sōsuke explains it is because she is a fish.  
     Sleep tight, Ponyo.  
Ponyo starts performing magical deeds to help Lisa and wears herself out. Lisa prepares some ramen for them with ham in it, much to Ponyo's delight. Ponyo, having worn herself out from performing so much magic, falls asleep while eating. Lisa tucks her into bed and tells Sōsuke to look after her. The storm continues to worsen and when Lisa looks out the window, she sees a light on at the senior's home. She tells Sōsuke she'll be back and leaves to go help. In the morning, Sōsuke wakes up to find Ponyo looming over him. He jumps up and the two end up smacking heads. They look out and see that the storm was so bad, the whole city has been submerged in water. Since their house is on a high hill, they are the only ones who didn't get submerged. Sosuke wants to go find his mother since she has not yet come back and gets Ponyo to blow up his toy boat and make it his size. She also blows up a candle for him.  

     Ponyo and Sōsuke search for survivors after the tsunami (which she caused).  
While Sosuke is in the boat, Ponyo sits on top and is the lookout. They run into a large boat of people evacuating and are advised to hop on, but Sosuke refuses. They also run into a couple with a baby who is sick and unhappy. Ponyo gives them some soup Lisa made and smooshes her face into the baby's to make it laugh. The husband gives them a candle and they depart. Sōsuke and Ponyo sail for a little while longer until Ponyo starts getting tired. The magic begins to wear off the toy boat. It returns to its original size. Sosuke and Ponyo walk until they find Lisa's empty car. Sōsuke starts crying and Ponyo comforts him. The two carry on until Ponyo starts shrinking.
They are then interceded and trapped by Fujimoto. He tries to get Sōsuke to give him Ponyo. Toki, one of the elders, calls Sosuke and interrupts Fujimoto and tells him not to trust Fujimoto. But Fujimoto tells Toki that there's no time and tells her that moon is getting closer. Toki asks Fujimoto, "Is that the best you can do?," and calls Sōsuke again. He grabs them and brings them down to the underwater garden he made, where everyone else, including Lisa, is. The garden is enchanted and takes away all the senior's disabilities, allowing them to run around like children again. Lisa is talking to Granmamare (Ponyo's mother) upon Sōsuke, Ponyo and Yoshie's arrival. Granmamare wakes up Ponyo and states if she really wants to become human, she has to give up magic. She then puts Ponyo in another magic bubble and hands her to Sōsuke, telling him he can make the choice. If he really loves her, he can kiss the bubble and she will be human. If not, Ponyo will become nothing but sea foam. Upon returning to shore, Ponyo is impatient, bursts the bubble herself, kisses Sōsuke, and becomes human again.  

Relationships[]
Fujimoto, Ponyo's father, who is an incredible sorcerer and the Guardian of Sea Life. She appears to dislike his strictness and misbehaves him often - in the form of running/swimming away from home.
Granmamare, an enormous and powerful Goddess of the Sea, is her mother. She describes her as being big and beautiful, but can be more frightening.
Ponyo's Sisters, which are a school of hundreds of little fish who resemble her and speak few words, like small children. Ponyo appears to be the oldest and largest of all of them, surpassing them in magical abilities, size and speech.
Sōsuke, a human friend of hers, whom she chose to love above all else and decided to become a human to in order to stay with him. She gladly gave up her magical abilities to do so.
Quotes[]
"Ponyo loves Sōsuke! I will be a human too!"
—Ponyo to her father, Fujimoto

"And I used to be a fish."
—Ponyo to Junior's Mother.

"How come your mom's not here?"
—Ponyo wondering where Lisa is.

Gallery[]
Brunhilde and her several sisters.Ponyo tries ham for the first time.Ponyo tends to spray people she dislikes with dirty water. She can only do this as a fish.Ponyo in a magic bubble, while denying her real name.Ponyo as a human for the first time.Ponyo trying to wake Sosuke up.After wasting all of her magic, Ponyo goes back to being a fish.Ponyo in a magic bubble again, this time put in there by her mother.
Trivia[]
According to Miyazaki, Ponyo isn't an actual name but what we call something cute or squishy.
Ponyo's favorite food is ham.
Ponyo is in love with Sōsuke.
Since her father is a human and her mother is a goddess, it is possible though unclear that Ponyo is considered a demi-goddess. This also corresponds with Brunhilde, the namesake of Ponyo, to be a demi-god in mythology.
Ponyo's role is partially inspired by Hans Christian Andersen's fairy tale The Little Mermaid.
She also shares a similar concept to Little Memole, a Japanese anime from 1984-85.
Ponyo's birth name and the music playing as she rides the waves to Sosuke is a reference to Richard Wagner's opera Die Walküre where Valkyrie is a demi-goddess.
The sequence in which Ponyo offers food to the mother and baby was written in to show that she could be selfless and live in the human world. Hayao Miyazaki developed the scene late in production, when he was stuck on how to end the film.


Ponyo


Characters


Main Cast

Ponyo | Sōsuke


Ponyo's Family

Fujimoto | Granmamare | Ponyo's Sisters


Sōsuke's Family

Lisa | Kōichi


Retirement Home

Toki | Yoshie | Kayo


Others

Karen | Kumiko | Junior | Junior's Parents | Bridge Guard | Newscaster | Sea Monster


Miscellaneous


Locations

Sosuke's House | Himawari Nursery School | Koganei Maru | Underwater Harbor


Objects 

Green Bucket | Jellyfish | Sōsuke's Boat


Music

Soundtrack  | Gake no Ue no Ponyo







 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater