Title: Prince Lune
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Prince_Lune
--------------------------------------------------
Prince Lune






Species
Cat or Spirit (possibly)


Gender
Male


First Appearance
The Cat Returns


Voice actor (Japanese)
Takayuki Yamada


Voice actor (Disney)
Andrew Bevis




Prince Lune (ルーン王子, Rūn Ōji) is a supporting character in The Cat Returns. He is a Russian Blue and also the Crown Prince of the Cat Kingdom.

Contents

1 Personality
2 Appearances

2.1 The Cat Returns


3 Relationships
4 Gallery
5 Trivia


Personality[]
Unlike his father, the Cat King, Prince Lune is shown to be much more friendly and humble towards his subjects and isn't fixated towards Haru. He is in fact unaware of his father's machinations, preferring to marry Yuki instead. As evidenced by his relationship with Yuki, a royal servant, he treats others fairly, regardless of class or affiliation.

Appearances[]
The Cat Returns[]
Prince Lune is saved by Haru in her human form at the beginning of the film. After Haru rescues him, he offers to repay her and then one thing leads to another, until she is forced to marry him, no thanks to the prince's father. Haru manages to escape, as Prince Lune is in love with Yuki, a cat maid who had befriended Haru. Additionally, Haru does not want to stay as a cat forever, which would’ve happened if she stayed in the Cat Kingdom.

Relationships[]
Cat King (father)
Yuki (wife)
Haru (friend)
Gallery[]
The Cat Returns - Official Trailer
Trivia[]
In the book, it is implied that Cat Kingdom is a sort of an afterlife for cats who died in living world. And all known residents of the kingdom differs from normal cats in the living world; they are bipedal, can perform deeds akin to humans, speak human speeches, and performs magics for some extent. Yuki, a cat who died in the living world and now resides in the kingdom, cannot travel to the living world while other residents including Lune can travel in the living world. This indicates that these residents are either spirits or half-dead beings.