Title: Priscilla Ahn
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Priscilla_Ahn
--------------------------------------------------
Priscilla Ahn is an American singer and songwriter who composed and performed the theme song for the Studio Ghibli film When Marnie Was There, "Fine on the Outside", and the album "Just Know That I Love You".

Contents

1 Background
2 Release
3 Fine on the Outside
4 Video
5 External links


Background[]
As a teenager Priscilla Ahn saw herself as friendless and alone, in common with the protagonist Anna in When Marnie Was There; "[I] would literally sit on my bed and look out the window at night at the moon, and wonder if I was loved, if anyone would miss me if I was gone". She turned to music and other interests as a way to compensate. This led her to writing "Fine on the Outside" in 2005, but she had never released it due to the lyrics being too personal, and because she didn't want to have to change the song in any way to make it fit in with her other albums. A big fan of Ghibli, she read the original novel When Marnie Was There after the announcement they were working on a movie adaptation, saw herself in Anna, and eventually decided to submit the song to Ghibli. The movie's producer Yoshiaki Nishimura contacted her soon afterwards saying how much he loved the song, and it was later officially chosen as the theme song.

Release[]
It was released in Japan as a CD single and a digital single on 2 July 2014.

Fine on the Outside[]


"Fine on the Outside"


Single by Priscilla Ahn


from the album Just Know That I Love You and When Marnie Was There Soundtrack Music Collection


Released

2 July 2014


Format

CD Single/Digital download


Genre

Folk/Pop


Length

11:43


Label

Yamaha Music Communications


Songwriter(s)

Priscilla Ahn

I never had that many friends growing up
So I learned to be okay with just me
Just me, just me, just me
And I'll be fine on the outside
I like to eat in school by myself anyway
So I'll just stay right here
Right here, right here, right here
And I'll be fine on the outside
So I just sit in my room
After hours with the moon
And think of who knows my name
Would you cry if I died?
Would you remember my face?
So I left home
I packed up and I moved far away
From my past one day
And I laughed
I laughed, I laughed, I laughed
I sound fine on the outside
Oh oh oh [4x]
Oh oh oh
Sometimes I feel lost sometimes I'm confused
Sometimes I find that I'm not alright
And I cry, and I cry, and I cry
Oh oh oh [4x]
Oh oh oh
So I just sit in my room
After hours with the moon
And think of who knows my name
Would you cry if I died?
Would you remember my face?
Video[]
         When Marnie Was There - Fine on the Outside Fine on the Outside  


External links[]
Fine on the Outside on Wikipedia