Title: San
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/San
--------------------------------------------------
San






Species
Human


Age
Unknown  (circa 15 years -17 years)


Gender
Female


First Appearance
Princess Mononoke


Voice actor (Japanese)
Yuriko Ishida


Voice actor (Disney)
Claire Danes




This article is about the character.  For the film, see Princess Mononoke.
San (サン), otherwise known as Princess Mononoke (もののけ姫, "Mononoke hime") or the "Wolf Girl / Princess", is the titular deuteragonist in Princess Mononoke. She acts, misbehaves, and resembles a wolf due to the fact that she was raised by wolves themselves.
San is the Princess of the Wolf Gods. 

Contents

1 Role in the film
2 Appearance and Personality
3 Relationships
4 Quotes
5 Trivia
6 References


Role in the film[]
When San was a baby, the wolf goddess Moro attacked her parents, who were found damaging the forest. Her parents threw San to her feet and ran away. Moro raised San as her own daughter, and in turn San treats Moro as her mother and Moro's two natural pups as her siblings.
    San is already warming up to Yakul.  
San's primary concern is protecting the forest and the animals she lives with. San rejects her own humanity and even thinks of herself as a wolf. She has suicidal thoughts and attempts to assassinate Lady Eboshi of Irontown many times, as San believes that Eboshi's death will result in the end of Irontown and human growth into the surrounding, untouched forest. It is only by Ashitaka's affection to her that she slowly comes to acknowledge her human side as well.
After the battle for the Forest Spirit's head, San tells Ashitaka that he is very dear to her. However, she cannot forgive the human race for what they have done to the forest and will continue to live apart from them. San returns to the forest while Ashitaka remains in Irontown. Before separating, Ashitaka promises that he will always be near and he will visit her in the forest whenever he can. San reciprocates his declarations and leaves.

Appearance and Personality[]
San is a very beautiful young woman of a slender yet average build with a lean well toned athletic agile strong body with subtle muscle tone and visible definition and moderate height for her age who wears ragged clothing, a dark navy blue dress a beige white tank top and a thick fluffy white cape made of a wolf's fur, and has what appears to be amaranth red war paint on her face painted into triangluar patterns . She wears a head necklace with a single small gem in her front. She also bears short, straight, shoulder length messy light olive brown hair styled in a bob cut with short slightly messy bangs slightly parted in the middle of her forehead fair pale light tan skin a petite yet sharp oval shaped face with a slim defined jawline high cheekbones, slim defined features and sharp contours with a small narrow sharp nose and large almond shaped wide intense dark blue grey eyes and  She has a medium white bone tooth necklace with several fangs tied across her neck. She wears long, dangling, white oval shaped earrings during the whole film. She is also very agile, fast, fairly strong and appears to be really good at using daggers and spears. She wears a Clay mask which is her iconic feature. The mask is dark red with two white ears and white wavy lines and three sunshine yellow holes for a mouth and eyes. 
Albeit a literal warrior-princess, San is fundamentally defined by her appreciation and protectiveness of nature. Being adopted by the wolf goddess Moro when she was but an infant, the "Wolf Girl", as expected, develops a wild and wolflike personality. However, despite her (justified) coldness towards humans, she is highly capable of compassion. 
This is initially a quality she only exhibits towards the inhabitants of the forest (animals, gods, and other beings), but as later shown throughout the movie, by the slow and gradual, but real progress of hers and Ashitaka's bond, she is also able to accept and develop admiration, and even affection for a fellow human - a process that also helps her accept her own humanity.  When Ashitaka's bullet wound was healed by the Forest Spirit San recognized that he was not an enemy of the forest and defended him from the Boars. 
She is stubborn, feisty , tough,short-tempered, fearless ,aggressive, courageous, and very protective, her primary concern being to protect the forest and the animals that she lives with. At first, San rejects her own humanity and seems to be quite misanthropic, also thinking of herself only as a wolf. Despite this, she eventually comes to accept Ashitaka, who was the first to see her humanity.

Relationships[]
Biological parents (Possibly dead)
Moro (adoptive mother)
Moro's clan (adoptive brothers)
Ashitaka (friend, implied lover)
Quotes[]
I'm not afraid to die! I'd do anything to get you humans out of my forest!
—San to the dying Ashitaka

Stop it! Leave him! He's mine!
—San saving the dying Ashitaka from her clan

Finally you're awake. You really should thank Yakul. He hasn't left your side this whole time.
—San to the living Ashitaka

Stop this! You know you can't possess the humans' strength by eating them.
-San to the Ape Tribe.

Go away!
-San to Ashitaka, her first lines

He told me, and he told me about you about your village, your people and your forest.
—San to Ashitaka about what Yakul had told her

It's over. Everything's over. The forest is dead.
-San grieves over the forest as she was hugged by Ashitaka.

Ashitaka, you mean so much to me, but I can't forgive the humans for what they've done.
—San to Ashitaka, her last lines

Trivia[]
In the original concept of Princess Mononoke, San was the third princess of a kingdom that was sent off to marry a monster, hence her current name, San, meaning "three". However, it was later changed to the movie's current plot, San being the third "child" of Moro.
San's tattoo's design was likely based on the tattoo of Kodowa appeared in Daijiro Moroboshi's Mad Men where Miyazaki deeply respects his works.
Ahsoka Tano from Star Wars series was inspired by San.
References[]




Princess Mononoke


Characters


Emishi Village

Ashitaka | Kaya | Ji | Hī-sama | Yakul


Irontown Denizens

Lady Eboshi | Gonza | Irontown Guard | Kiyo | Kohroku | Toki | Osa


Mononoke

San | Forest Spirit/Shishigami | Moro | Moro's clan | Apes | Kodama | Nago | Okkoto | Boar clan


Others

Jigo/Jikobo | Demon | Asano


Miscellaneous


Locations

Cedar Forest | Irontown | Emishi Village


Objects

Crystal dagger


Music

Soundtrack | Ashitaka and San | The Legend of Ashitaka