Title: Satsuki Kusakabe
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Satsuki_Kusakabe
--------------------------------------------------
Satsuki Kusakabe






Japanese name
草壁 サツキ (Kusakabe Satsuki)


Species
Human


Age
10 years


Gender
Female


First Appearance
My Neighbor Totoro


Second Appearance
Mei and the Kittenbus


Role
Main character


Voice actor (Japanese)
Noriko Hidaka


Voice actor (Streamline)
Lisa Michelson


Voice actor (Disney)
Dakota Fanning




Satsuki Kusakabe (草壁 サツキ, Kusakabe Satsuki), is one of the protagonists in 'My Neighbor Totoro. 

Contents

1 Personality and Bio
2 In the Film
3 Appearance
4 Personality
5 Relationships

5.1 Mei Kusakabe
5.2 Totoro
5.3 Tatsuo Kusakabe
5.4 Yasuko Kusakabe
5.5 Kanta Ogaki
5.6 Granny


6 Quotes
7 Etymology
8 Trivia


Personality and Bio[]
Satsuki is the older sister of Mei in My Neighbor Totoro. Satsuki can be irritable towards her sister Mei, for example at the end of the film when they find out that their mother won't be coming home from the hospital for the weekend, she scolded her sister for getting upset. Satsuki likes to think of herself as grown-up and caring for her sister. She is very lively, although not quite as lively as Mei. Satsuki is a good sister on the whole and looks after Mei to the best of her ability despite being upset about their ill mother. She is also very kind and responsible overall.

In the Film[]
Satsuki boards the moving van along with her four-year-old sister Mei. Satsuki is Mei Kusakabe's older sister and daughter of Tatsuo Kusakabe and Yasuko Kusakabe. Upon moving to the country, she and her sister Mei discover the home of Totoro, a giant anthropomorphic catlike creature. Through a series of adventures, they become very close. She has a friend named Michiko.
In Mei and the Kittenbus, she is sleeping and she does not realize the Kitten Bus' presence.

Appearance[]
Satsuki has short straight dark walnut brown hair and dark chocolate brown eyes (the eyes mostly appear black due to coloring and art style) she has pale skin and is relatively tall with a thin slender build. She wears a tangerine skirt with tangerine suspenders, white bloomers, a sunshine yellow collared shirt, a sky blue pair of shoes, and a white hat (only worn in a few scenes).
In the second half of the movie she wears a yellow dress with white hems. During the end credits she has a yellow shirt and tangerine overalls on with a picture of a chibi Totoro embroidered onto the right leg. She is noticeably tall compared to her sister, and somewhat taller than a few of the children her age at her school.
Whenever she is inside the family household, Satsuki typically wears her choice of casual clothing or her pajamas during nighttime. Like her sister, she prefers to be barefoot when inside and/or around the house.

     
MISCONCEPTION: Satsuki does not wear a sky blue and carnation pink version of her normal outfit, the lighting is darker and changes the color pallete in the scene. 

Personality[]
Satsuki is a bright and cheerful individual. She generally tries to be someone to look up to, most likely for her sister. She seems to idolize her mother's peaceful demeanor, and she even says that she wants her hair to cooperate to look like her mother's hair. Satsuki is hard working and intelligent, as shown when she is studying at school or helping out around her new home. She is also very open minded and pleasant towards people like Granny and even Kanta after getting to know his friendly side.

    "I'm making this one for you, Mei."  
Satsuki Kusakabe seems to be an independent and mature young lady. She does constantly feel grief and pressure, but does not let it show. The grief she feels for her mother being ill is only revealed towards the end of the movie when she breaks down in front of Granny. She also clearly feels very stressed to act like an adult and be a good role model for Mei.
Most of Satsuki's anger stems from Mei's contrasting irresponsibility. She gets easily frustrated, but is still a lovable character with good intentions.

    Satsuki carrying a tired Mei at the bus stop next to Totoro  
Relationships[]
Mei Kusakabe[]
Satsuki and her younger sister Mei are shown to be very close as siblings. Though they argue very often, they love each other and protect each other. Satsuki has a low tolerance level for Mei's childish behavior. When Mei was whining about her mother not coming home yet and complaining to Satsuki about it, Satsuki got very angry and yelled, "You're such a baby! Just grow up!" to Mei. Afterwards, she regretted saying this to Mei because she saw that Mei had run away. Satsuki worriedly searched for her sister until her feet were blistered and in pain. She clearly cares about her sister even though she can become quite aggravated with her.

Totoro[]
Satsuki comes to Totoro in her time of need. At first she didn't believe that Totoro was real, but then she realized that Mei was serious. She wanted very badly to meet Totoro, and she did. She seemed to be very excited to see Totoro and offered him an umbrella (and then shocked to see that Totoro took the umbrella as his own ("Wasn't the umbrella he took with him daddy's!? (Streamline/Fox dub)"))! She also was very appreciative about Totoro helping her find her sister in the end.

Tatsuo Kusakabe[]
Tatsuo Kusakabe is Satsuki and Mei's father. He is a professor at a university. Satsuki has a very friendly and happy relationship with her father. They seem to get along very well, and she appreciates how hard he works to take care of her and Mei.

Yasuko Kusakabe[]
Satsuki admires her mother. Yasuko is hospitalized from an unknown illness, and Satsuki misses her very much. She constantly worries that her mother will die. Satsuki also shows that she wants to have hair like her mother's, which possibly symbolizes her admiration for her mother's calm personality traits as well.

Kanta Ogaki[]
Kanta is Satsuki's classmate. He at first approaches Satsuki with a basket with cake from Granny, but doesn't really have a conversation with her. Then he hastily ran outside and yelled, "Hey! You in there! Your house is haunted!" and stuck his tongue out. Satsuki took this as very rude and stuck her tongue out back. 

      
She later responded to the situation by saying, "I hate boys." She still is glad he brought the cake though. Then later on he offers her an umbrella, and she is thankful for it, even though he was rude while giving it to her. In the end, he helps her look for Mei and she is grateful for all the help.

Granny[]
Satsuki has respect for Granny. She is extremely polite and kind towards her, possibly because she is an elder who was nice to her.
Granny sometimes takes care of her and her sister while their father is at work.

Quotes[]
Come out, come out, wherever you are!
—Satsuki and Mei, looking for Totoro

Etymology[]
The name Satsuki is written in katakana (サツキ), which has no special meaning. However, when written in kanji (皐, 皐月, 五月 or 小月), it could possibly mean:
皐 - "swamp, shore".
皐月/五月 - "May".
小月 - "small" (小) (sa) and "moon" (月) (tsuki).
Satsuki's surname Kusakabe means "grass, herb, weed" (草) (kusa) and "wall" (壁) (kabe).
Trivia[]
Satsuki's name originates from the archaic Japanese word for the month of May. Her sister's name, "Mei," is a phonetic reading of the English "May."


My Neighbor Totoro


Characters


Kusakabe Family

Tatsuo | Yasuko | Satsuki | Mei


Sayama Hills Residents

Granny | Kanta Ōgaki | Kanta's Father | Kanta's Mother | Mailman | Michiko | Miss Hara | Mover | Otoko | Ryōko


Totoros and Other Animals

Totoro | Mini Totoro | Catbus | Susuwatari | Granny's farm animals







 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater

LMAO