Title: Seita's Mother
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Seita%27s_Mother
--------------------------------------------------
Mrs. Yokokawa






Age
39 years (deceased)


Gender
Female


First Appearance
Grave of the Fireflies


Role
Supporting character


Voice actor (Japanese)
Yoshiko Shinohara


Voice actor (CPM)
Veronica Taylor


Voice actor (Sentai)
Shelley Calene-Black




Setsuko, be a good girl, and listen to your brother.
—Mrs. Yokokawa to Setsuko Yokokawa before the air raid 

Mrs. Yokokawa (横川さん Yokokawa-san) was the loving wife, deceased of Kiyoshi Yokokawa and the mother, deceased of Seita Yokokawa and Setsuko Yokokawa in the film Grave of the Fireflies. 

Contents

1 In film
2 Relationships
3 Gallery
4 Trivia


In film[]
Mrs. Yokokawa is first seen tying a hood on Setsuko Yokokawa, telling her to be a good girl and to listen to her brother as the family prepares for the bombing. She then states that she best start for the shelter, and for them to meet her there as soon as possible. Seita asks her if she has her heart medicine with her, and she says yes and motions to her bag, telling him not to worry. Her last words were "Right here, don't worry" ("I have it right here, don't worry" in the English Dub) when Seita asked her if she has her heart medicine before she left to the shelter.  
When Seita and Setsuko arrive at the shelter, Seita is told that his mother has been badly injured that he rushes to see her and finds her asleep on a bed, heavily bandaged, bloody and burned. Horrified, Seita painfully states that his mother has heart trouble and asks if she can have her medicine where the man there states he will find out. When he leaves, Seita tries to communicate with her, but he is greeted with only soft breathing.
When Seita returns to Setsuko, he tells her that she is hurt and in the hospital, but she will get better soon, afraid to tell his little sister the truth. 
Seita's mother's dead body is then seen being put into a truck as flies and maggots move around her while a man states that she is not unbandaged because her body is too gruesome to see; another man states that she must go on the truck that day with the heat they are having as Seita watches them carry her away and she is then cremated in a huge fire with many other dead bodies. 
Seita’s mother had several clothes that their aunt sold to get more food but Setsuko tries to take back her late mother's clothing, she screams shrilly as Seita holds her back.  

Relationships[]
Kiyoshi Yokokawa (Husband, deceased)
Seita Yokokawa (Elder son, deceased)
Setsuko Yokokawa (Younger daughter, deceased)
Unnamed sister-in-law
Unnamed niece
Gallery[]
The siblings with their mother in their original home.
Trivia[]
Mrs. Yokokawa is likely the sister-in-law of Seita's aunt and the aunt of Seita's Cousin.