Title: Sherlock Hound
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Sherlock_Hound
--------------------------------------------------
Sherlock Hound

Kanji
名探偵ホームズ


Rōmaji
Meitantei Hōmuzu


Directed by
Kyosuke Mikuriya (20 episodes)Hayao Miyazaki (6 episodes)


Produced by
Luciano Scaffa (Head)Yutaka Fujioka


Screenplay by
Gi Pagot (Italy)Sunao Katabuchi (eps 4-5, 9-10)


Based on
Sherlock Holmes by Arthur Conan Doyle


Music by
Kentarō Haneda


Studio
RAITokyo Movie Shinsha


Production
Yoshifumi Kondō (Character Design)


Distributed by
TV AsahiRai 1


Release date(s)
November 6, 1984 - May 20, 1985


Sherlock Hound (名探偵ホームズ , Meitantei Hōmuzu, lit. Famous Detective Holmes) is a 26 episode Italian-Japanese animated television series produced by RAI and Tokyo Movie Shinsha, airing from November 6, 1984, to May 20, 1985.
The series is a loose adaptation of Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes stories, reinterpreted in a world of anthropomorphic dogs. The setting, ostensibly the standard Victorian Britain, featured regular appearances of Jules Verne-esque technology, adding a distinct "steampunk" atmosphere.
Hayao Miyazaki directed episodes 3-5 and 9–10, while simultaneously working on the manga and subsequent film adaptation of Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind in 1984. These episodes were written by screenwriter Sunao Katabuchi, director of films such as In This Corner of the World (2017). Future Studio Ghibli collaborators Seiji Okuda, Yoshifumi Kondō, Nizô Yamamoto, Kazuhide Tomonaga, Atsuko Tanaka were also involved in production.
Two compilation movies, The Adventure of the Blue Carbuncle and Treasure Under the Sea containing re-recorded music and dialogue were released alongside Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind on March 11, 1984. It was also screened with Castle in the Sky in 1986. The series was heavily promoted by future Ghibli parent company Tokuma Shoten's Animage magazine, where Toshio Suzuki was Editor-in-Chief at the time.

Contents

1 Overview
2 Premise
3 Characters
4 Behind the Scenes

4.1 Planning
4.2 Production
4.3 Copyright issues


5 Music
6 Release
7 Voice Cast

7.1 Additional Voices


8 Credits
9 References
10 External links
11 Navigation


Overview[]
    "Sherlock Hound" is a light-hearted take of the iconic detective duo.  Despite borrowing characters from the original novel by Arthur Conan Doyle, the story for Sherlock Hound is almost entirely original. The cast has been replaced with anthropomorphic dogs, and the dynamic between characters is simplified for children. Professor Moriarty and his subordinates Todd and Smiley are the central villains, whose schemes are thwarted by Holmes and his assistant Dr. Watson. The detective elements are light and instead replaced with the Watson's strange inventions. The added police and chase sequences keep the tone light and fun. Most of the plot in each episode revolves are cases of theft and not murders (although there are depictions of attempted murder in The Little Martha's Great Case and The Adventure of the Speckled Strings).
Premise[]
In the foggy city of London, detective Sherlock Hound resides in Baker Street. Together with his assistant Doctor Watson and the ever reliable Mrs. Hudson, they thwart the evil genius Professor Moriarty and his elaborate schemes. Meanwhile, Scotland Yard's Inspector Lestrade is also on the case, although always a step behind.

Characters[]
Sherlock Hound (ホームズ, Hōmuzu)
Taichirō Hirokawa (Japanese), Larry Moss (English), Elio Pandolfi (Italian)
Just like his original incarnation, he has a genius intellect and is extremely knowledgeable in multiple fields. He keeps a cool and logical head despite the situation. Unlike his original incarnation, however, his only drug habit is smoking a tobacco pipe. He keeps his apartment a mess and is regularly conducting chemical experiments that lead to clouds of noxious fumes. He also seems to have feelings for Mrs. Hudson, as does the rest of the male cast.
He drives a Benz Velo. He is a fox.
Doctor Watson (ワトソン, Watoson)
Kōsei Tomita (Japanese), Lewis Arquette (English), Riccardo Garrone (Italian)
Hound's loyal companion, he is a trained doctor who returned to England shortly before meeting Hound. He tries his best to help Hound as he can, but has difficulty at times keeping up with Hound, both mentally and physically, being a bit overweight.
Watson is a Scottish terrier.
Mrs. Hudson (ハドソン夫人, Hadoson-fujin)
Yōko Asagami (Japanese), Patricia Parris (English), Cristina Grado (Italian)
Hound and Watson's landlady. In most adaptations, Holmes's long-suffering landlady is shown as middle-aged or older, but in this version she is a comely widow in her 20s and a love interest of many, including Holmes, Watson, and Moriarty (mostly Holmes), and given the first name Marie (マリー, Marī).
Her late husband Jim was a pilot and Hound finds her contacts in the world of aviation useful; many of the local aviators are also former buddies of Mrs. Hudson's late husband and/or have strong romantic feelings for the caring gentle-natured Mrs. Hudson herself, and so they are always eager to assist in any way she asks. Mrs. Hudson displays a serenely-dignified and level-headed personality comparable to Hound's; she can also be quite quick and resourceful herself when need be, plus she appears to be both an experienced high-speed driver and a crack shot with a revolver.
Miyazaki actually wanted to present her as the real brains of Baker Street, running rings around both Hound and his enemy Moriarty, but he was overruled. Like many people in Hound's world, Mrs. Hudson is a golden retriever.
Professor Moriarty (モリアーティ教授, Moriāti-kyōju)
Chikao Ōtsuka (Japanese), Hamilton Camp (English), Mauro Bosco (Italian)
Hound's archenemy, unlike the rarely appearing mafia donnish Moriarty in the books, this Moriarty is portrayed as working personally on his plans without any sort of support network and frequently encountering Hound and his allies, being the main antagonist in the majority of the episodes. Still an intellectual, he is a master inventor, often the one responsible for the steam punk technology seen in the show, including his personal "steam car", a tractor and tank combination rather than a car.
His plans can occasionally be very complex or outlandish that rely on one questioning or linking together unusual acts, which is often how Hound figures out what Moriarty is up to. Sometimes he acts as a mercenary to other criminals who are after what he normally wouldn't steal.
In this version, Moriarty resembles a gray wolf.
Behind the Scenes[]
Planning[]
    A poster compilation image boards of Sherlock Hound by Yoshifumi Kondō.  The series was a joint project between Japan's Tokyo Movie Shinsha and the Italian public broadcasting corporation RAI and its production arm REVER. It came at a time when Tokyo Movie Shinsha was having difficulty producing a TV series for the domestic Japanese market, and were trying to find ways create content for the overseas market. They tried to recoup production cost by selling the rights to Holmes to the three major networks in the United States. Telecom Animation became in charge of animation production. 
Following the release of The Castle of Cagliostro and its poor box office performance, Hayao Miyazaki and Yasuo Ōtsuka went back to work on this series (Ōtsuka remains uncredited despite his involvement). Miyazaki himself was said to have been suffering insomnia while working on the mange for Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind, which was serialized in Animage magazine.

Production[]
Future Studio Ghibli regulars were also involved in the production, including character designer Yoshifumi Kondō and art director Nizô Yamamoto. Yamamoto, who painted beautiful background art,  was so committed that he changed the color of the bricks one by one in day and night transition scenes.
Another person who was deeply involved in the work was screenwriter Sunao Katabuchi. Katabuchi, aside from working on three episodes where Miyazaki was involved, he was also assigned as assistant director. Miyazaki himself was invited by his teacher Hiroshi Ikeda (a veteran animator at Toei) while attending the film department of Nihon University College of Art. There were rumors among the writers of anime magazines at that time that "Sunao Katabuchi" is probably the pen name of Hayao Miyazaki."[1]

    Moriarty's lackeys Smiley and Todd's appearances are based on Kazuhide Tomonaga and Yoshifumi Kondō.  Future Studio Ghibli regulars include animation director Kazuhide Tomonaga, and Atsuko Tanaka (who would later work on Your Name (2016). Moriarty's lackey Smiley's appearance is actually based on Kondō, while Todd is based on Tomonaga. Tomonaga was asked about this in an interview, "It seems that story is spreading (laughs). Mr. Miyazaki often incorporated the people around him into his character. For example, in The Castle of Cagliostro, the waitress who attends to Lupin III and his friends as they eat spaghetti, that person also has a model. When I was in Holmes, I was a little more fat, so I think it was interesting for Miyazaki-san to compare the characters."
Tomonaga, the animation director of the second half of "Sherlock Hound (who previously worked on Anne of Green Gables, the Lupin III series and later Castle in the Sky, The Cat Returns) citing how Holmes was a good blend of manga-style action and realism. That despite characters doing over-the-top cartoony actions, the animation grounds it in its own realism. "There is a feeling that the character is moving with his feet on the ground. I was conscious of that part at that time as well."

     The storyboard of the infamous open sandwich scene in "Sherlock Hound" shows highly detailed notes by Hayao Miyazaki, showing his attention to detail.  He also recalls the atmosphere at the time, "The production originally began in Italy (at REVER), however, the designs they sent over were a flatly designed, similar to "Pink Panther". Mr. Miyazaki didn't like it. I wanted to draw characters in a realistic space rather than a flat surface with a cartoon movie-like pattern." Referring to the Italian co-producers RAI and REVER, "We had a lot of trouble with the other party (laughs)."
Thanking Miyazaki's early image boards conceptualizing the character and the scenario, Tomonaga remarks, "So I started working by borrowing the design and drawing an image board while watching Miyazaki-san and Kondo (Yoshifumi) discuss with each other about creating the character." 
"I couldn't get a picture of London at that time, so I went to the British Council (a public international exchange agency in the UK) and copied various materials. While looking at such materials for inspiration, I imagined that it would be interesting to have such a scene and drew various things. I drew it with Mr. Miyazaki, Mr. Kondo, Mr. Tomizawa (Nobuo), Mr. Tannai (Tsuji), and myself. In the original, there are scenes where Holmes uses drugs. The animation was a little more serious at first, and there was also a direction to incorporate the light and shadow of England at that time, including the difference between rich and poor. I was preparing while thinking that it would be nice to have such a part. In the end, it felt more brilliant."

     Early concept art showed Mrs. Hudson being human while the rest of the cast were anthropomorphic dogs.  Tomonaga also praised Kondō's character designs, saying he was very good at drawing gag-like poses, and he had "a wide range of drawing styles... On the other hand, he was also interested in children's literature and social issues. Mr. Kondo's art did not have many lines, but it had a very realistic feeling. Even if you look at the character designs, you can feel the weight in their proportions. There is a presence there. It's not just about the skill of painting. There is something there. I don't know what that is, but I don't think it can be done by anyone else."
Miyazaki tried have Mrs. Hudson, the landlord of Sherlock's boarding house, be human, and that Holmes could not be understood while in the presence of human characters, but the idea was rejected by the Italian producers, thinking it seemed unnatural.[2]
He recalls in an interview, "I was doing Holmes in my late 20s, I think it was my most fulfilling time as an animator. While working with Mr. Otsuka, Mr. Miyazaki, the people of A pro, and various other people, I was able to realize the fun of animation again. Because of that, I'm still working as an animator."[3]

Copyright issues[]
     Animation director Kazuhide Tomonaga recreated London after taking research trips to the British Council in Japan.  Six episodes were directed by Miyazaki in 1981 until problems with Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's estate led to a suspension in production. According to Koji Takeuchi, producer and president of Telecom Animation Film (TMS Entertainment), they had properly acquired the copyright. Unfortunately, the Italian side of the production, which was entrusted with negotiating the Doyle estate, worked too slowly, prompting the Japanese side to rush into production. Production was further delayed as Telecom decided to produce the animation movie Nemo. During the suspension, Tokuma Shoten became involved in helping restart its production.
Sunao Katabuchi, then a writer for the episodes directed by Miyazaki, clarified that the reason for the suspension was due to the funds from the Italian sponsors had been cut off. Due to the ongoing copyright issue at the time, the series credits features the disclaimer, "This work is a different work from the Sherlock Holmes series." Arthur Conan Doyle's name subsequently appears in the credits after the dispute was settled.
With the decision to release certain episodes on a movie theater, an advertising agency started to acquire TV sponsors around February 1984, and production resumed. It has also been decided that TV Asahi will broadcast.
By the time the issues were resolved Miyazaki had turned to other projects, and thus the remaining episodes were directed by Kyosuke Mikuriya. Tokyo Movie Shinsha had appointed Mikuriya, had previously directed Lupin the Third Part II. Studio Gallop, which was founded in 1978 by former Mushi Pro members, also played a central role in the production and were subcontracted to produce two to three episodes a month.

     Booklets for The Adventure of the Blue Carbuncle and Treasure Under the Sea.  The series took advantage of its setting of England in the 1900s by including the appearance of a Natsume Sōseki (a Japanese novelist and best known for his novels Kokoro, Botchan, I Am a Cat, as well as being a scholar of British literature) who was studying in England and the appearance of a mail plane. The later compilation movies were to include modest fan service from the original novel, Hound of the Baskervilles, but this was rejected by the RAI who wanted the series to remain targeted towards children. This resulted with the eerie atmosphere being toned down.
The show was finally aired in 1984. The same year a film version edited together of two of the episodes directed by Miyazaki (The Adventure of the Blue Carbuncle and Treasure Under the Sea) was released alongside Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind in Japanese theaters, entitled Meitantei Hōmuzu Gekijouban.
RAI and TMS Entertainment would later work together again on Montana Jones, a comedy adventure anime television series which was broadcast in Japan on NHK from April 2, 1994, through April 8, 1995. Montana Jones shared a similar atmosphere to Sherlock Hound.

Music[]
     The Holmes Collection contained the score by Kentarō Haneda.  Two pieces of theme music are used for the Japanese version: The opening theme is Sora Kara Koboreta Story (Story Spilled From the Sky) and the ending theme is "Thames Gawa no Dance" (lit. "Dance of the Thames River"), both performed by the Japanese duo, Da Capo. The series' international versions had a single piece of theme music for the opening and ending credits. The frequent soloists are Joe Farrell on soprano, tenor and alto saxophones and flute (in his final recording) and Milt Jackson on vibes. This English theme does not exist on the UK DVD's from Manga, instead instrumentals of both the Japanese opening and ending themes were used.
Release[]
     The Adventure of the Blue Carbuncle and Treasure Under the Sea were released in theaters alongside Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind on March 11, 1984.  In 2002, Pioneer Entertainment released the series on DVD (Region 1, NTSC format). 6 volumes or Case Files were released. Each disk was double sided with the Japanese version on one side and the English dubbed version on the other side.
On 1 February 2010, Manga Entertainment released the complete series on DVD (Region 2, PAL format) in the United Kingdom as a HMV exclusive set. It has since become available in other outlets. It only contains the English dubbed version. This release also lacks the episode title cards, though the episodes are listed on the DVD case and menus.
Discotek Media released the series in a complete, unabridged DVD box set with English and Japanese versions on September 30, 2014.
On 21 November 2014, Bandai Visual released the restored complete series on Blu-ray (Region A, Japanese language only) in Japan as a 4-disc set. The restored edition features more vivid color reproduction. Its retail price is 25,000 yen (excluding tax).

Voice Cast[]


Character

Original

English


Sherlock Holmes

Taichirou Hirokawa

Larry Moss


Smiley

Mitsuo Senda


Thal

Ryo Horikawa


Dr. Watson

Kousei Tomita

Lewis Arquette


Inspector Lestrade

Shōzō Iizuka


Todd

Hiroshi Masuoka


Souseki Natsume

Sho Hayami


Mrs. Hudson

Youko Asagami

Pat Parris


Purie

Hitomi Oikawa


Martha

Run Sasaki


Shiels

Miki Takahashi


Polly

Mayumi Tanaka


Aleen

Kumiko Takizawa


Professor Moriarty

Chikao Ohtsuka

Hamilton Camp


Captain Lythander

Ichirō Nagai

Additional Voices[]
Original: Kazuyo Aoki, Mika Doi, Yuzuru Fujimoto, Nobuyuki Furuta, Daisuke Gouri, Kyōko Hamura, Sho Hayami, Masashi Hirose, Ryo Horikawa, Atsushi II, Masao Imanishi, Takkou Ishimori, Akira Kamiya, Tomie Kataoka, Masayuki Katō, Osamu Katō, Takurō Kitagawa, Kōichi Kitamura, Naoko Matsui, Yoshiko Matsuo, Eken Mine, Akemi Mukaidono, Asami Mukaidono, Yasuo Muramatsu, Ichirō Nagai, Keiichi Nanba, Rokurō Naya, Hiroko Nishi, Ikuo Nishikawa, Masako Nozawa, Kenichi Ogata, Takao Ohyama, Hitomi Oikawa, Masayuki Omoro, Run Sasaki, Bin Shimada, Yutaka Shimaka, Kazuyuki Sogabe, Takashi Taguchi, Gara Takashima, Miki Takahashi, Junpei Takiguchi, Kumiko Takizawa, Sakiko Tamagawa, Mayumi Tanaka, Mahito Tsujimura, Masaaki Tsukada, Noriko Tsukase, Toshiya Ueda, Eiko Yamada, Kazuko Yanaga, Mari Yokoo, Keiko Yokozawa
English: Lewis Arquette, Hamilton Camp, Larry Moss, Pat Parris
Credits[]


Credit

Staff


Chief Director
Hayao Miyazaki (eps 3–5, 9–11), Kyōsuke Mikuriya (20 episodes)


Series Compsition
Keishi Yamazaki, Mayumi Shimazaki


Writer
Gi Pagot, Hayao Miyazaki (ep 3), Hayao Yamadori (eps 18, 26), Marco Pagot, Sunao Katabuchi (eps 4–5, 9–10), Toshirou Ishidou (ep 19), Toshiya Ito (ep 11), Tsunehisa Itō (4 episodes), Yoshihisa Araki (13 episodes,


Storyboard
Hayao Miyazaki (eps 3–5, 9–10), Keiji Hayakawa (6 episodes), Kunihiko Yuyama (ep 17), Nobuo Tomizawa (ep 11), Seiji Okuda (7 episodes), Shingo Araki (ep 6), Sumio Tokoro (ep 12), Takaya Mizutani (eps 20–21), Tameo Kohanawa (eps 14, 24)


Episode Director
Hayao Miyazaki (eps 3–5, 9–10), Keiji Hayakawa (10 episodes), Nobuo Tomizawa (ep 11), Seiji Okuda (4 episodes), Sumio Tokoro (eps 6, 12), Takashi Tanazawa (ep 24), Takaya Mizutani (eps 20–22)


Character Design
Gi Pagot, Marco Pagot, Tsukasa Tannai (eps 14–26), Yoshifumi Kondō (eps 1–13)


Animation Director
Heihachirō Tanaka (eps 6, 12, 16), Kazuhide Tomonaga (ep 10), Kazuyuki Kobayashi (ep 24), Kitaro Kousaka (ep 20), Shoji Furuta (eps 13, 19), Shojuro Yamauchi (6 episodes), Takeo Kitahara (5 episodes), Tamotsu Tanaka (4 episodes), Tatsuo Yanagino (ep 6), Tsukasa Tannai (eps 1, 9), Yoshifumi Kondō (eps 3–5, 11), Yoshinobu Michihata (ep 21)


Key Animation
Akira Kasahara (ep 18), Atsuko Tanaka (eps 3, 10–11), Chie Uratani (eps 4, 9, 21), Emiko Kataoka (ep 24), Fusako Oume (ep 6), Hatsuki Tsuji (6 episodes), Heihachirō Tanaka (eps 12, 16, 22), Hideaki Matsuoka (4 episodes), Hidekazu Ohara (ep 24), Hiroshi Shimizu (eps 20, 22), Hitoshi Ueda (ep 21), Jirō Tanaka (4 episodes), Junko Ikeda (ep 20), Junko Tsutsumi (ep 9), Kazuhide Tomonaga (eps 3, 5, 9, 11), Kazuko Shibata (ep 18), Kazuyuki Kobayashi (ep 24), Keiko Tomizawa (ep 21), Koichi Maruyama (eps 3, 10–11), Kozo Masanobu (ep 18), Kyoko Sugiyama (ep 18), Makiko Futaki (eps 5, 10–11), Mariko Takano (eps 6, 12, 16), Masaaki Endou (eps 5, 10), Masahiro Yoshida (ep 24), Masako Shinohara (eps 3–4, 9–11), Masanori Ono (ep 4), Naoki Oohira (eps 13, 19), Nobuo Tomizawa (ep 3), Norihiro Matsubara (eps 14, 17), Satoshi Ichishimo (eps 1, 17), Sayuri Matsumoto (5 episodes), Shinsuke Kasahara (ep 2), Shoji Furuta (eps 6, 13, 19), Shojuro Yamauchi (ep 5), Takahiro Iida (eps 13, 19), Takashi Watanabe (ep 24), Tetsuro Aoki (eps 13, 19), Tetsuya Yamamoto (ep 8), Tomomi Mizuta (ep 24), Toru Sato (ep 8), Toshi Noma (ep 15), Tsukasa Abe (ep 8), Tsukasa Tannai (eps 3–4, 7), Yasuhiro Seo (eps 20, 22), Yoko Konishi (6 episodes), Yoko Sakurai (5 episodes), Yoko Tsukada (ep 9), Yoshiaki Matsuda (ep 25), Yoshihiro Owada (6 episodes), Yoshinobu Michihata (eps 4–5, 9), Yuzo Sato (eps 1, 14)


Paint
Ayako Kobayashi (eps 6, 13, 20), Chiharu Mizuma (ep 24), Chiyoshi Tanaka (11 episodes), Eiko Fukuma (eps 10, 19), Eiko Horikiri (4 episodes), Etsuko Yanagihara (eps 6, 13, 20), Fukuo Suzuki (ep 24), Hatsumi Kondo (eps 3, 5, 9, 11), Hiromi Nagamine (ep 24), Junko Koizumi (11 episodes), Kayoko Gotsu (4 episodes), Kazue Hiranuma (4 episodes), Kiyomi Yahiro (eps 3, 9), Kumi Udagawa (eps 6, 13, 20), Kunitoshi Okajima (eps 5, 11), Makiko Yamauchi (ep 24), Mari Miyashita (eps 3, 9), Masaki Miura (11 episodes), Miwako Shibata (eps 6, 13, 20), Motoko Uchida (4 episodes), Naoko Hashimoto (eps 3, 5, 9, 11), Nobuko Mizuta (ep 24), Norichika Iwakiri (eps 5, 11), Rieko Oki (eps 10, 19), Sayuri Sugawara (eps 3, 9), Shinichi Toyonaga (eps 5, 11), Shinichi Yoshikawa (eps 5, 11), Taeko Oumi (ep 24), Takako Matsuzaki (eps 10, 19), Tomoko Yamamoto (eps 3, 9, 21), Yoshiko Masuda (11 episodes), Yumiko Yasukouchi (eps 10, 19)


Background Art
Hiromi Morikawa (8 episodes), Hiroshi Washizaki (ep 17), Hiroshi Yoshikawa (8 episodes), Katsu Hisamura (eps 3, 5, 9, 11), Kazuo Okada (ep 24), Kazushige Takatoo (ep 17), Kiyomi Oota (eps 3, 5, 9, 11), Kyoko Minowa (ep 17), Mutsuo Koseki (eps 3, 5, 9, 11), Sachiko Shiromomiji (ep 25), Sadahiko Tanaka (ep 26), Satoshi Shibata (ep 26), Seiji Sugawara (ep 25), Shinji Kimura (ep 26), Shunichi Yoshida (ep 17), Tadashi Katayama (ep 26), Takeshi Waki (15 episodes), Teruhide Suzuki (ep 25), Terushige Makino (7 episodes), Tomoko Fukushima (ep 25), Toshikazu Yamaguchi (eps 14–15), Yasuyuki Chiba (15 episodes), Yoshi Kato (6 episodes), Yuko Matsuura (eps 3, 5, 9, 11)


Executive Producer
Shunzō Katō, Yutaka Fujioka


Music
Kentarō Haneda


Production
Telecom Animation

References[]

↑ "All episodes of "Sherlock Hound" directed by Hayao Miyazaki are distributed on YouTube. Why was Holmes a dog?", Excite JP.

↑ Sherlock Holms movies retrospective, Blog.

↑ Sherlock Holmes Blu-ray release, AnimeAnime.


External links[]
Official

Sherlock Hound (Episode 1-13) on TMS Entertainment
Sherlock Hound (Episode 14-26) on TMS Entertainment
Sherlock Hound on BS11
Information

 Sherlock Hound on Anime News Network
 Sherlock Hound at the Internet Movie Database  
Sherlock Hound on Wikipedia
Navigation[]






 V • T • E    Credits





Credits




Founders

Hayao Miyazaki (Director) •  Isao Takahata (Director) •  Toshio Suzuki (Producer) •   Yasuyoshi Tokuma (Executive Producer)





Notable Staff

Steve Alpert (Overseas Promotion Manager) •  Hideaki Anno (Director) •  Masashi Ando (Animator) •  Makiko Futaki (Animator) •  Hitomi Tateno (Animation Check) •  Toru Hara (Producer) •  Takeshi Inamura (Animator) •  Katsuya Kondō (Animation Director) •  Yoshifumi Kondō (Animation Director) •  Koji Hoshino (President) •  Megumi Kagawa (Animator) •  Yoshinori Kanada (Animator) •  Kitarō Kōsaka (Director) •  Kazuo Komatsubara (Art Director) •  Goro Miyazaki (Director) •  Tomomi Mochizuki (Director) •  Hiroyuki Morita (Director)  •  Yoshiyuki Momose (Animation Director) •  Yoshiaki Nishimura (Producer) •  Atsushi Okui (Director of Photography) •  Kazuo Oga (Background Artist) •  Shinsuke Nonaka (Production Affairs Manager) •  Kaoru Mano (Titles) •  Keiko Niwa (Screenwriter) •  Reiko Okuyama (Animator) •  Seiji Okuda (Director) •  Takeshi Seyama (Director) •  Masako Shinohara (Animator) •  Atsushi Takahashi (Storyboard) •  Yohei Takamatsu (Art Director) •  Atsuko Tanaka (Key Animator) •  Yôji Takeshige (Art Director) Kazuhide Tomonaga (Animator) •  Yasuo Uragami (Sound Director) •  Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Sound Director) •  Akihiko Yamashita (Animator Director) •  Michiyo Yasuda (Color Designer) •  Hiromasa Yonebayashi (Director) •  Nizô Yamamoto (Background Artist) •  Kenichi Yoshida (Animator) •  Noboru Yoshida (Art Director) •  Ushiko (Cat)





Music

Joe Hisaishi •  Michio Mamiya •  Yuji Nomi





Association

Eiko Kadono (Author) •  Tokiko Kato (Singer) •  John Lasseter (Director) •   Rieko Nakagawa (Author) •  Tatsuo Hori (Author) •  Mamoru Hosoda (Director) •  Yoshie Hotta (Author) •  Yōichi Kotabe (Senior Animator) •  Naohisa Inoue (Artist) •  Keisuke Miyazaki (Son) •  Kenji Miyazawa (Author) •  Yasuji Mori (Animation Director) •  Hideo Ogata (Animage Editor) •  Osamu Sagawa (Friend) •  Ryōtarō Shiba (Author) •  Mamiko Suzuki (Toshio Suzuki's Daughter) •  Mamoru Oshii (Director) •  Yasuo Ōtsuka (Director)





Affiliated Companies

Anime Torotoro •  NHK •  Nippon Animation •  Tokyo Movie Shinsha •  Fuji TV •  Oh! Production •  Pony Canyon •  Tokuma Shoten •  Tokuma International •  Shinchosha Publishing •  Dentsu •  Tohokushinsha Film Corporation •  Mitsubishi •  Studio Kajino •  Studio Ponoc •  Streamline Pictures •  Toei Animation •  Toei Company •  TopCraft •  Shochiku •  Toho •  The Walt Disney Company •  Central Park Media •  Sentai Filmworks •  GKIDS •  Madman Entertainment









 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater