Title: Shizuku Tsukishima
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Shizuku_Tsukishima
--------------------------------------------------
Shizuku Tsukishima






Species
Human


Age
14 years


Height
5'4


Gender
Female


First Appearance
Whisper of the Heart


Voice actor (Japanese)
Yoko Honna


Voice actor (Disney)
Brittany Snow




Shizuku Tsukishima (月島 雫, Tsukishima Shizuku) is the protagonist of Whisper of the Heart. 

Contents

1 Appearance
2 Personality
3 Story
4 Relationships
5 Quotes
6 Voice Acting
7 Gallery
8 Trivia


Appearance[]
Shizuku is a slender fourteen years old girl with short dark hair which reaches slightly below her ears and the same colored eyes, although it looks black due to the animation style and which is a bob cut 
At the start of the movie, she is seen wearing a buttoned sunshine yellow shirt and sunshine yellow skirt along with it. Later, however, she wears an amaranth red shirt with a white collar, a sunshine yellow skirt and a flat straw hat with a violet band around it. She wears also a royal blue skirt and white shirt with a long-sleeved carnation pink shirt and also a sunshine yellow jacket when she goes to school. In the beginning, she wears a white t-shirt and carnation pink shorts with flip flops, and then a sunshine yellow collarless shirt and a sunshine yellow skirt that matches with baise shoes. Her uniform is a short-sleeved baize sailor shirt with an amaranth red ribbon/tie to tie and a long baize skirt and school shoes with white socks and another uniform later in the year that's a blue long-sleeved sailor shirt, and an indigo skirt.

Personality[]
Shizuku is generally good-natured, although she has the tendency to fly into a rage and call people "jerks", mostly Seiji Amasawa after his continuous insults. She has a deep interest in reading books and writing poetry/stories, but it often distracts her from other tasks, including paying attention in school.

Story[]
Shizuku Tsukishima was born in 1980 in Tokyo Hospital. She attends the local Junior High School and is currently sitting tests to get into High School. She loves reading and frequently writes alternative lyrics to the song "Country Roads" (originally by John Denver). She then notices that all the library books she is borrowing have previously been checked out by the mysterious Seiji Amasawa. Shizuku gets distracted easily and has to apologize for daydreaming in class at school. She loves writing too and writes a novel called "Whisper of the Heart" hence the name of the film. Shizuku also has an enemy towards the start of the film, the boy who she keeps running into and annoys her by reading her song lyrics when she left her book in the park and signing them around town as well as using the annoying phrase "take a wild guess." Shizuku is just starting teenage years and is trying to find her place in the world as she is unsure what career option to take and is undermined by Seiji's great violin-making ambitions. 
She eventually becomes Seiji's girlfriend.

Relationships[]
Seiya Tsukishima (father)
Asako Tsukishima (mother)
Shiho Tsukishima (elder sister)
Seiji Amasawa (friend/fiance)
Yuko Harada and Sugimura: Shizuku is best friends with Yuko and is also friends with Sugimura, whom she has been friends with him for years. Yuko has a crush on Sugimura, but Sugimura is in love with Shizuku. However, Shizuku turns him down so she wouldn't betray Yuko. Although rejected, he accepts this.
Quotes[]
You're the one who inspired me, Seiji. I'm glad I pushed myself. I know myself a little bit better now.
—Shizuku to Seiji Amasawa

Stupid jerk!
-Shizuku's repeated line about Seiji

"Seiji Amasawa". Wow, is there any book here this guy hasn't checked out? I wonder what kind of person he is.
-Shizuku to herself after finding Seiji's name in another library book

Wow. You carved the entire thing yourself? By hand?
-Shizuku asking Seiji about the wooden violin

Of course I like you, we've been friends for years. But Yuko and I are best friends. So that's the way it's gonna stay, okay?
-Shizuku admits that she and Sugimura are friends

Voice Acting[]
Shizuku Tsukishima was voiced by Yoko Honna and in the English version by Brittany Snow.

Gallery[]
An angry Shizuku finally delivers her dad's lunch in the library.Shizuku calmly studying with her school book.Sugimura deciding to remain friends with Shizuku.A still mad Shizuku won't show her friends her poem after they kept making fun of her.Shizuku's poem is preventing her from paying attention in school.
Trivia[]
The name Shizuku means "drop/droplet, drip, bead, drib/driblet, globule" (雫).
Shizuku's surname Tsukishima means "moon" (月) (tsuki) and "island" (島) (shima).