Title: Shoukichi
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Shoukichi
--------------------------------------------------
Shoukichi






Japanese name
正吉 (Shōkichi)


Species
Tanuki


Gender
Male


First Appearance
Pom Poko


Voice actor (Japanese)
Makoto NonomuraKokontei Shinchou (older self)Yuki Inaba (as a transformation)


Voice actor (Disney)
Jonathan Taylor ThomasMaurice LaMarche (older self)Unknown (as a transformation)




Shōkichi (正吉), also known as Shōkichi of the Shadow Forest (影森の正吉, Kagemori no Shōkichi), is one of the main protagonists in Pom Poko. His older self is narrating the film.

Contents

1 In film
2 Appearance
3 Relationships

3.1 Okiyo
3.2 Gonta
3.3 Ponkichi


4 Name
5 Gallery


In film[]
Shoukichi's father used to warn him about how "sick, cruel and heartless" humans are. By contrast, Shoukichi is curious about humans and wishes to understand them in order for him and the other tanukis to survive.  While learning how to transform, Shoukichi is able to transform with ease due to his experience watching humans and because of that he is ahead of the class.  At first, he has an excitable and childlike personality as he is still young but is also smart and wants to help others in anyway he can.  He even develops a relationship with Okiyo, the two eventually mate and raise four cubs.  After becoming a father, Shoukichi becomes mature and smarter as he tries to find ways to help the raccoon clan and what the right course of action should be.
During Operation Spectre, he joins the parade disguised as the god Fukurokuju.
At the end of the film, the Narrator reveals himself to be an older Shoukichi, and that since going to live among the humans he has taken a desk job, he is still with Okiyo but it is unknown about their cubs.

Appearance[]
Shoukichi is a small, brown-furred tanuki with dark fur covering almost all of his face. When he takes on a human form, he appears as a lean young man with the appearance of a teenager or young adult, with tufts of hair sticking out of the top of his head.

Relationships[]
Okiyo[]
Shoukichi has a very healthy relationship with Okiyo. They get along very well, and work together to drive the humans from their land, most notably using their secret Operation Twin Star. They try to hold off from having cubs, but Okiyo finds she can't keep her hands off of him and Shoukichi becomes a father of four.

Gonta[]
Shoukichi is constantly at odds with Gonta, but is ready to help him out in almost any situation and often tries to understand his point of view. Neither tanuki has ideas that work, but both still insist the other is right. Their feud comes to a head after an all-night debate when, after Gonta decides to strike out on his own with his followers, Shoukichi dismisses the idea that anyone could listen to him, and they start to brawl. After this, Shoukichi tries to stop Gonta from going into battle with the police, and is in despair when he's too late to save him.

Ponkichi[]
Ponkichi is Shoukichi's childhood friend, and his closest. The two play and hang out together. The two have different lifestyle ideas, however. Shoukichi is fascinated by humans, wishes to study them as much as he can and is capable of transforming into one. Ponkichi cannot transform and, in hindsight, Shoukichi realizes that Ponkichi just wants to be a normal tanuki.

Name[]
Shoukichi means "Correct Fortune", and "Kagemori" means Shadow Woods.

Gallery[]