Title: Sophie Hatter
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Sophie_Hatter
--------------------------------------------------
“Well, the nice thing about being old is you’ve got nothing much to lose.”
—Sophie




Information


Gallery






Sophie Hatter





							Young
							
						



							Elder
							
						



							Bob cut
							
						



							Starlight
							
						

































Japanese name
ソフィー・ハッター (Sofī Hattā)


Species
Human


Age
18 years (only prologue and after being cured of her curse)90 years (after she get cursed by Witch of the Waste)


Gender
Female


First Appearance
Howl's Moving Castle


Role
Main protagonist


Voice actor (Japanese)
Chieko Baisho


Voice actor (Disney)
Emily Mortimer (young)Jean Simmons (old)




Sophie Hatter-Pendragon (ソフィー・ハッター • ペンドラゴン , Sofī Hattā Pendoragon) is the main protagonist of Howl's Moving Castle. Her given name is retained in both the English version and the Japanese version. She runs her family's hat shop in Market Chipping. When the Witch of the Waste casts a curse on her, turning her into an old woman, Sophie goes to the wastelands in search of a cure. She is voiced by Chieko Baisho in Japanese and Emily Mortimer as young Sophie and the late Jean Simmons as elder Sophie in the Disney dub.

Contents

1 Appearance
2 Personality
3 Behind The Scenes
4 Relationships
5 References
6 Navigation


Appearance[]
     Sophie at her workshop.  Sophie is a relatively plain yet pretty looking slender fair skinned 18-year-old young woman of average height who works at her father's hat shop. She has a straight slim nose and large almond dark chocolate brown eyes and matching dark chocolate brown hair, tied with two pink ribbons in a long braid. She has thick dark brown eyebrows, and Howl says that her smile is beautiful. She wears a cerulean dress with a white neck and black buttons. 
After receiving a curse by the Witch of the Waste, she is transformed into a 90-year-old woman. She adapts quickly to her situation, remarking she has become more cunning in her old age. As elder Sophie, she continues to wear her cerulean dress, pairing it with a straw hat adorned with a red ribbon.

     Elder Sophie vigorously cleaning Howl's castle.  Due to her love for Howl, Sophie de-ages depending on her emotional state. When defending Howl to Sullivan, Sophie briefly regains her original appearance, but turns back after. Throughout the rest of the film, her old form doesn't suffer back pain and she stands straighter; her wrinkles also smoothen. Sophie's braid is shorter in her old form.
Her hair becomes grey as a side effect of the curse; however, eventually, it attains a silvery sheen which Howl likes, saying it looks like starlight. Her hair style changes to a shoulder-length bob cut after she cuts her braid off and gives it to Calcifer as a sacrifice of a part of her. Afterward she tucks her hair behind her ears. 

Personality[]
Sophie is a reserved, plain-looking young woman. She is far too mature and serious for her age, much to the chagrin of her sister Lettie and stepmother Honey. Tired of wizard Howl's indolence, she initiates cleaning his castle. She develops feelings for the poor, cowardly wizard. She also serves as a maternal figure to Markl and a friend to Calcifer and Turnip Head. Despite her misgivings, she ends up tolerating the Witch of the Waste after she is turned feeble by the royal sorceress Madame Suliman.

Behind The Scenes[]
     Early concepts of elder Sophie by Takeshi Inamura felt like they 'didn't resemble Sophie'.  Supervising animator Takeshi Inamura handled many of the initial character sketches, "At first, I drew her as if she were merely an older version of Sophie, but then she didn't resemble 'Sophie' at all. So I thought it might be better to draw the aged Sophie as representing Sophie's personality. The drawings became more 'Sophie-like' once I managed to convey Sophie's personality as an old lady.[1]
Michiyo Yasuda elaborated on choosing the right colors for Sophie's design, "I was determined to make the aged Sophie look cute, but I had to dismiss that approach almost immediately. She simply wouldn't look old without her skin being wrinkled and blemished. She might appear plain, but I made sureshe would have the appeal of a refined old lady. I would alter the colors according to each scene. For example, when she cheerfully cleans the rooms, I added some brightness to her skin and clothes. I did the same with the Witch of the Waste when she's stunned afte rlosing her magical power, but then ends up becoming kind. I wanted to make her buoyant there. I've taken this approach ih previous films, but in this one I really worked on conveying the emotional developments with colors in minute detail.[2]

     Explorator sketches of Sophie.  Yasuda also explained how a character's color hues changes according to their emotional development, and even why Sophie's hair remains white in the film, "In order to determine colors I always take into consideration the personality and emotional development of each character and the director's aim. But the characters in this film change so much physically from scene to scene the emotional development can be equally drastic. I changed the colors in detail with every change. For example, Sophie turns into an old lady and then becomes young again, but by then she's experienced so many things, including her encounter with Howl. I felt she had changed dramatically from who she was at the beginning of the film. I left Sophie's hair white in the scene where she suddenly becomes young again in the high moor scene with Howl's hideaway hut, and it turned out right. Miyazaki also agreed and suggested, "How about we just keep her hair white?", so we kept her hair that way in the second half of the film. But the hue of her white hair differs from the hue of her aged hair."[3]
Relationships[]
Honey (mother): A loving mother, a loving daughter. They have a good relationship but betrays Sophie at the end, which she truly regrets doing.
Lettie Hatter (sister): They treat each other with kindness.
Markl (apprentice): Almost like a son to her.
Howl Jenkins Pendragon (wizard): At first, they don't seem to like each other much and simply view each other like strangers. But later, the two fall in love, and marry at the end of the movie. In the sequel (novel), they have a son.
Calcifer (fire demon) Sophie and Calcifer are relatively good friends as he is the first one to know about her curse.
References[]


↑ "The Art of Howl's Moving Castle", p.68

↑ "The Art of Howl's Moving Castle", p.67

↑ "The Art of Howl's Moving Castle", p.69


Navigation[]


Howl's Moving Castle


Characters


Main Cast

Howl | Sophie | Calcifer | Markl | Turnip Head


Kingdom of Ingary

Suliman | King | Heen | Kosho | Witch of the Waste


Hatter Family

Honey | Lettie


Species

Non-Muggles | Peeping Bugs | Blob Men | Tadpole Monsters


Others

Bessie | Madge (Howl's Customer) | Mayor of Porthaven | Star Children


Miscellaneous


Locations

Ingary | Market Chipping | Cesari's | Hatter's Hat Shop | The Waste | Porthaven | Star Lake | Kingsbury | Royal Palace | Howl's Castle | Howl's Bedroom | Cave of Mind | Secret Garden | Howl's Cottage


Mechanical Designs and Magical Objects

Battleship | Flying Battleship | Bomber | Flying Kayak | Palanquin | Magic Ring


Music

Soundtrack  | The Promise of the World







 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater