Title: Sora Matsuzaki
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Sora_Matsuzaki
--------------------------------------------------
Sora Matsuzaki






Species
Human


Age
Early teens


Gender
Female


First Appearance
From Up on Poppy Hill


Role
Supporting character


Voice actor (Japanese)
Haruka Shiraishi


Voice actor (GKIDS)
Isabelle Fuhrman




Sora Matsuzaki (松崎 空, Matsuzaki Sora) is a supporting character of From Up on Poppy Hill film. She is the younger sister of Umi Matsuzaki, older sister of Riku Matsuzaki and is a student of Konan School.

Contents

1 Appearance
2 Story
3 Personality
4 Relationships
5 Etymology
6 Trivia


Appearance[]
For her general appearance, Sora has a bob haircut similar to Umi, and a pink barrette on the right side of her hair. For her school attire, she wears a standard sailor school uniform with a green ribbon that is tied into a bow. 

Story[]
During the events of the movie, Sora is shown to do anything that interests her such as tidying her hair, supporting Umi and her relationship with Shun Kazama, and even bonding with the rest of her family in the Coquelicot Manor.
Following a stunt by Shun the other day, Sora asked for Umi's help to visit the Quartier Latin together to get Shun's autograph. This action alone sets off a chain of events where she would eventually fall in love with Shiro Mizunuma, inspiring Umi to inspire the students of the Quartier Latin to save the building from demolition by rebuilding it, bringing Shun and Umi together, and putting their relationship into a test by discovering about their past together.

Personality[]
Sora is a stereotypical teenage girl who always do what a normal teenager does. Best shown during her debut where she took most of her time tidying her hair before having breakfast with the family. 
She is also depicted as a supportive sister to Umi whenever they visit the Quartier Latin together even agreeing to help her and the other students to restore the building just to save it from being demolished.
Another part of her personality is that she is quite graceful with how Umi and Shun are a couple together, despite that Sora has a crush on Shun beforehand.

Relationships[]
Hana Matsuzaki (grandmother)
Ryoko Matsuzaki (mother)
Yūichirō Sawamura (father)
Umi Matsuzaki (older sister)
Riku Matsuzaki (younger brother)
Shiro Mizunuma (love interest)
Etymology[]
The name Sora means "sky" (空).
Sora's surname Matsuzaki means "pine tree, fir tree" (松) (matsu) and "cape, peninsula" (崎) (saki/zaki).
Trivia[]
In the original manga, her surname is Komatsuzaki (小松崎).
In a way, Sora inadvertently caused the entire story to happen by having Umi to accompany her to visit the Quartier Latin, bringing Umi and Shun together to restore the Quartier Latin, and having them to discover their past.