Title: Spinning Globe
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Spinning_Globe
--------------------------------------------------
Spinning Globe is the theme song for the film The Boy and the Heron (2023). It was suing by Japanese star Kenshi Yonezu.

Development[]
Years before the the film was released, Miyazaki approached the singer about creating a song for the film; he was flabbergasted that it happened, and asked "Why me"?. Miyazaki had heard the song “paprika” by Uonez prudced on the radio. At a nursery run by Ghibli, Suzuki saw Miyazaki doing a sing a long with the children. In 2019, Miayzaki gave storyboards to Yonezu to work on it for multiple years, with no given released ate. As a result, decided his inspiration was by the story of the film but also the singer’s passion for Miyazaki’s workYonezu created multiple version before deciding on one version, and he created a demo CD to present to Miyazaki, somethng that brought him to tears. That version was added to the film.

Lyrics[]
EnglishJapanese
On the day I was born,
The Sky was clearing up high and far
That was a day when I heard your voice patting my back and said “GO Ahead”
In the seasons, we passed each other, and we hurt each other sometimes.
When I touched the light, I extended the shadow. Moreover, the sky is far. 
Blown by the wind, I started running. I will transcend the rubbles.
Someone is waiting for me ahead of this path.
IN Any day, I dream of a light shinig on me.
Now, I will fling open ther door, as if to reveal the secret.
Insatiably, I will extend my thoughts, as if to spin the earth globe.
Someone I loved went to somewhere nobody knows.
With the gentle face you used to have, you are still somewhere far away.
 
I will start singing in the rain, without regard for other people's eyes.
This path continues because I wished it to continue.
I dream of meeting again, forever
I grabbed a fragment, as if not to forget the secret.
I will extend my thoughts to the end, as if to spin the earth globe.
 
Everything starts from the smallest correct wishes I have.
When I bear one loneliness, I will turn my path.
 
Blown by the wind, I started running. I will transcend the rubbles.
Someone is waiting for me ahead of this path.
In any day, I dream of a light shining on me.
Now, I will fling open the door, as if to reveal the secret.
With the joy of touching hands. With the grief of letting go.

Insatiably, I will continue to draw, as if to spin the earth globe僕が生まれた日の空は　高く遠く晴れ渡っていた
行っておいでと背中を撫でる　声を聞いたあの日
 
季節の中ですれ違い　時に人を傷つけながら
光に触れて影を伸ばして　更に空は遠く
 
風を受け走り出す　瓦礫を越えていく
この道の行く先に　誰かが待っている
光さす夢を見る　いつの日も
扉を今開け放つ　秘密を暴くように
飽き足らず思い馳せる　地球儀を回すように
 
僕が愛したあの人は　誰も知らないところへ行った
あの日のままの優しい顔で　今もどこか遠く
 
雨を受け歌い出す　人目も構わず
この道が続くのは　続けと願ったから
また出会う夢を見る　いつまでも
一欠片握り込んだ　秘密を忘れぬように
最後まで思い馳せる　地球儀を回すように
 
小さな自分の　正しい願いから始まるもの
ひとつ淋しさを抱え　僕は道を曲がる
 
風を受け走り出す　瓦礫を越えていく
この道の行く先に　誰かが待っている
光さす夢を見る　いつの日も
扉を今開け放つ　秘密を暴くように
手が触れ合う喜びも　手放した悲しみも
飽き足らず描いていく　地球儀を回すように

Video[]
Spinning Globe - Kenshi Yonezu 米津玄師 - 地球儀The Boy and the Heron - Kenshi Yonezu "Spinning Globe" Teaser