Title: Spirit Realm
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Spirit_Realm
--------------------------------------------------
Locations






Name
Spirit Realm


Japanese name
霊界 (Reikai)


⓵ Appearance
Spirited Away

[ Template documentation ]


The Spirit Realm (霊界 reikai, lit. "spirit world") is the main setting for the Japanese animated film Spirited Away. It is home to the Bathhouse owned by Yubaba and the cottage owned by Zeniba, two of the film's core locations. Unlike the Human World, most of the Spirit Realm's occupants usually go about their activities at night rather than during the day.

Contents

1 Geography
2 Currency
3 Notable Locations

3.1 The Red Gate
3.2 The Bathhouse
3.3 Zeniba's Cottage (The Sixth Station)
3.4 Unnamed Land


4 Law
5 Gallery
6 References
7 Navigation


Geography[]
The Spirit Realm is largely similar and directly linked to the Human World (though individuals from the Human World are rarely seen and scorned upon in the Spirit Realm). It has a substantially less-polluted environment and less-advanced technology. In exchange for their lack of technology, some inhabitants of the Spirit Realm are known to be capable of practicing magic, as well as exhibit various other, inhuman powers.
Like the Human World, the Spirit Realm is quite large in size, with most of its revealed locations covered in a vast amount of water. Spirits who wish to travel from one place to another take the one-way Sea Train or a luxurious boat to cross the water. Haku, when he first meets Chihiro Ogino in the Spirit Realm, tells her to get across the river, in order to get back to the clock tower's tunnel to be in the Human World, but the water shows vast size as it appears to be much larger than a simple river, shown when the boat floats all the way from water at the clock tower to the unnamed land close to the restaurants and bathhouse (probably a town or city). The one-way train introduced in the film stops by a total of six known stations before resting.

Currency[]
     Yubaba looks at the gold.  
The currency of the realm (as shown in various scenes from the film) are small, solid gold pieces. They are considered rare and extremely valuable by Yubaba and most of the Bathhouse Workers. The exact exchange rate between a gold piece and the Japanese Yen is not shown or mentioned in the movie.

Notable Locations[]
The Red Gate[]
     The Red Gate connects the human world and the spirit realm.  
The red gate is what connects the Human World to the Spirit Realm. It is depicted (from the perspective of individuals in the Spirit Realm) as a large clock tower built onto a plaster-made tunnel. When active, it has a red, green and dark brown color scheme of plaster, and although only 1 tunnel to enter through from either side of the different worlds, there are 3 identical openings (possibly 3 tunnels) inside the very front and even another opening much farther away to the right side. When Chihiro and her parents first entered, the tunnel was the one all the way to the right of the other two identical openings, although outside before entering, this one tunnel is in the middle of the tower, with two other large "pictures or drawings" of the same type of tunnels on either side of it. Inside, there are multiple benches, chairs, and even decorative pillars, as if it is one of the train stations for spirits to sit on and wait for the train. When inactive, the clock tower does not appear this way; there is no plaster on the building's front, back, or tunnel, and no tower. Instead, the lower rectangular part of the building becomes made of pale brick with moss covering most of the front. The exit becomes a regular tunnel without any of the decorations, benches, or the other two openings inside the front of the building.

The Bathhouse[]
The Bathhouse is the most prominent location in the Spirit Realm as well as the core setting for Spirited Away. It is located on one of the realm's many islands and is surrounded by various Food Stalls and restaurant districts. It opens around sunset and is most active during the night. The Bathhouse is located on the island Yūya.

Zeniba's Cottage (The Sixth Station)[]
Zeniba's Cottage is another important location in Spirited Away. It is located in the sixth and last station of the one-way train's route and is surrounded by uncluttered space, several other cottages and undisturbed nature. Whether this location in the realm is more active during the day or night is not mentioned or elaborated on in the film. The location is called Swamp Bottom.

Unnamed Land[]
At the start of the film, Chihiro finds herself waist-deep in sea water at night and also spots a luxurious ocean liner crossing the vast amount of water to reach the land in which Yubaba's Bathhouse is located on. The ocean liner comes from an unnamed piece of land with many bright lights accentuating its countless buildings. This sea water begins at the very start of the stairs in front of, during the day, the waterless stone river; however, during the night, this water is much larger than the size of a river, since it goes all the way from the stairs, over the stone "river", far to the clock tower and other buildings nearby.

Law[]
In the Spirit Realm, rules are hard and fast. They are even more powerful than Spirit Realm Magic. If someone breaks one of the rules, punishment is applied almost instantly. The first one is mentioned at the beginning of the film. When someone doesn't work, that person either disappears or becomes an animal that is eaten later in the Bathhouse.[1]
Another rule is that Yubaba has to employ everyone who asks for a job.
The last one is that Chihiro has to pass a final test before she can leave the Spirit Realm.

Gallery[]

References[]


↑ The Art of Spirited Away, page 16




Navigation[]


Spirited Away


Characters


Main Cast

Chihiro | Haku


Chihiro's Family

Akio Ogino | Yuko Ogino


Bathhouse Denizens

Aniyaku | Aogaeru | Boh | Chichiyaku | Foreman | Kamaji | Kashira | Lin | Susuwatari | Yubaba | Yuna


Spirits

Kasuga-Sama | No-Face | Radish Spirit | River Spirit | Stink Spirit | Onama-Sama | Ōtori-Sama | Ushioni


Others

Shikigami | Zeniba | Hopping Lantern


Miscellaneous


Locations

Spirit Realm | Red Gate | Clock Tower | Deserted Town | Bathhouse | Boiler Room | Yubaba's Office | Yubaba's Apartment | Sea Railway | Swamp Bottom | Zeniba's Cottage


Objects

Bath Tokens | Dōsojin Statue | Gold


Music

Soundtrack | Always with Me | One Summer's Day | Procession of the Gods | Reprise/Again







 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater