Title: Takara-sagashi
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Takara-sagashi
--------------------------------------------------
Takara-sagashi






Directed by
Takeshi Inamura


Based on
"Treasure Hunting" by Rieko Nakagawa, Yuriko Yamawaki


Music by
Michiru


Studio
Studio Ghibli


Distributed by
Ghibli Museum


Release date(s)
June 4, 2011


Running time
9 min.


Treasure Hunting (たからさがし, Takara-sagashi) is a 9-minute animated short film by Takeshi Inamura, with planning and composition by Hayao Miyazaki, and produced by Studio Ghibli. It premiered at the Ghibli Museum on June 4, 2011. It is one of the twelve short films shown exclusively there and Cinema Orion in Ghibli Park.
The shortest of the Ghibli Museum-exclusive films, the story is about a boy named Yûji and a rabbit named Gikku who find a stick at the same time, and decided to compete in games to decide who can keep the stick.[1] Considered the spiritual sequel to Whale Hunting (2001), it adapts yet another children's book The Treasure Hunt by children's author Rieko Nakagawa and illustrator Yuriko Yamawaki. 
The film was released just seven months after the completion of another Ghibli Museum short, Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess (2010).

Contents

1 Behind the Scenes

1.1 Production
1.2 Post Release


2 Credits
3 References
4 External links
5 Navigation


Behind the Scenes[]
Production[]
    Treasure Hunting, a children's book by Rieko Nakagawa and Yuriko Yamawaki.  This project reunites Hayao Miyazaki with longtime friend and collaborator, Rieko Nakagawa and her illustrator Yuriko Yamawaki. Nakagawa, a nursery teacher and children's book author, has been a source of inspiration for the director and co-founder of Studio Ghibli for decades. Their professional relationship began when Nakagawa was hired as a lyricist for the opening theme to My Neighbor Totoro (1988), a TV spot produced in 1992 for Nippon TV, and a special spot for the channel's 40th anniversary.
Miyazaki decided to adapt Nakagawa and Yamawaki's book, The Treasure Hunt. According to French fansite Buta Connection, little is known about this short film's production besides Miyazaki rediscovering the original children's book. The film adopted the colorful graphic pastel look that has been used in several Ghibli films in the past, including Koro's Big Day Out and Whale Hunting and [[Ponyo]]. Takeshi Inamura took the lead as animation director.

Post Release[]
    Yûji and Gikku enjoying a nice meal before heading out.  During an interview with Studio Ghibli producer Toshio Suzuki, he asked the authors how the film turned out, Nakagawa exclaimed, "For the adaptation of Treasure Hunting, my heart was pounding. But this time around, I was confident that Studio Ghibli would once again be adapting the book." Yamawaki was delighted saying, "It was fun and very natural throughout the movie. It is normal for children to get hungry while running up a hill in this manner."
They were both impressed by the attention to detail, such as the wallpaper in the interiors and the way vegetables were drawn. They noticed slight changes to their story, such as adding a hole in where the main character Yûji slips out from his home. Suzuki replied, " “For the film, you better have a city. Yûji will thus move away from her to go towards the fields. Then, at sunset, he returns home." Yamawaki, felt reassured, saying this is for the better, so as "the mother would not worry." 

    Yûji and Gikku find the stick and race against each other for it.  The two authors understood changes had to be made. Suzuki explained further, "There are parts that we added to the original story and others that we deleted. At the beginning, there were all these dialogues that we pruned a little. We only kept part of it. Miya-san and I proposed it. We thought it would be quite understandable just with the drawings."[2]
Suzuki said the main motivation for making this film was to be able to depict various walking and running animation. He said, "In this movie, like in the original book, there are basic movements, like walking and running. Animating walking and running is not an easy exercise. But with a talented animator, just with these two movements, we can understand if it is a man or a woman and almost his age."

     Yûji and Gikku racing across a meadow. Extended running sequences were made for this short film.  "Miya-san (Miyazaki) had been saying for a while that he wanted to create an animated film just based on the actions of walking and running. And one day he said, "There you go, this is the work that lends itself the best, Suzuki-san!" " He spoke of "Treasure Hunting". 
A final aspect that the interview commented on is the addition of songs. Nakagawa worried, "Yeah, those three songs were a little too generous." to which Suzuki replied, "Miya-san was considering adding one more!"
When asked about her final thoughts on the film, Nakagawa's said, "That's why I wanted children who were all first after giving their all. In this movie, Yûji and Gikku run and do sumo with all their might. I was happy with their enthusiasm. And in the end, they are hungry and eat cookies." Yamawaki countered, "I imagine that the children who see the film will also want to go for a run in the fields."

Credits[]


Staff

Name


Planning
Hayao Miyazaki


Art Director
Naomi Kasugai


Animation Director
Takeshi Inamura


Director of Photography
Atsushi Okui


Color Supervision
Hiromi Takahashi and Eiko Matsushima, in the collaboration with Michiyo Yasuda


Producer
Toshio Suzuki


Music
Michiru


References[]


↑ Takara-sagashi (Treasure Hunting). MyAnimeList, December 17, 2018

↑ Buta Connection on Treasure Hunting.


External links[]
 Treasure Hunting on Anime News Network
 Treasure Hunting at the Internet Movie Database  
Treasure Hunting on Buta Connection
Navigation[]






 V • T • E    Credits





Credits




Founders

Hayao Miyazaki (Director) •  Isao Takahata (Director) •  Toshio Suzuki (Producer) •   Yasuyoshi Tokuma (Executive Producer)





Notable Staff

Steve Alpert (Overseas Promotion Manager) •  Hideaki Anno (Director) •  Masashi Ando (Animator) •  Makiko Futaki (Animator) •  Hitomi Tateno (Animation Check) •  Toru Hara (Producer) •  Takeshi Inamura (Animator) •  Katsuya Kondō (Animation Director) •  Yoshifumi Kondō (Animation Director) •  Koji Hoshino (President) •  Megumi Kagawa (Animator) •  Yoshinori Kanada (Animator) •  Kitarō Kōsaka (Director) •  Kazuo Komatsubara (Art Director) •  Goro Miyazaki (Director) •  Tomomi Mochizuki (Director) •  Hiroyuki Morita (Director)  •  Yoshiyuki Momose (Animation Director) •  Yoshiaki Nishimura (Producer) •  Atsushi Okui (Director of Photography) •  Kazuo Oga (Background Artist) •  Shinsuke Nonaka (Production Affairs Manager) •  Kaoru Mano (Titles) •  Keiko Niwa (Screenwriter) •  Reiko Okuyama (Animator) •  Seiji Okuda (Director) •  Takeshi Seyama (Director) •  Masako Shinohara (Animator) •  Atsushi Takahashi (Storyboard) •  Yohei Takamatsu (Art Director) •  Atsuko Tanaka (Key Animator) •  Yôji Takeshige (Art Director) Kazuhide Tomonaga (Animator) •  Yasuo Uragami (Sound Director) •  Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Sound Director) •  Akihiko Yamashita (Animator Director) •  Michiyo Yasuda (Color Designer) •  Hiromasa Yonebayashi (Director) •  Nizô Yamamoto (Background Artist) •  Kenichi Yoshida (Animator) •  Noboru Yoshida (Art Director) •  Ushiko (Cat)





Music

Joe Hisaishi •  Michio Mamiya •  Yuji Nomi





Association

Eiko Kadono (Author) •  Tokiko Kato (Singer) •  John Lasseter (Director) •   Rieko Nakagawa (Author) •  Tatsuo Hori (Author) •  Mamoru Hosoda (Director) •  Yoshie Hotta (Author) •  Yōichi Kotabe (Senior Animator) •  Naohisa Inoue (Artist) •  Keisuke Miyazaki (Son) •  Kenji Miyazawa (Author) •  Yasuji Mori (Animation Director) •  Hideo Ogata (Animage Editor) •  Osamu Sagawa (Friend) •  Ryōtarō Shiba (Author) •  Mamiko Suzuki (Toshio Suzuki's Daughter) •  Mamoru Oshii (Director) •  Yasuo Ōtsuka (Director)





Affiliated Companies

Anime Torotoro •  NHK •  Nippon Animation •  Tokyo Movie Shinsha •  Fuji TV •  Oh! Production •  Pony Canyon •  Tokuma Shoten •  Tokuma International •  Shinchosha Publishing •  Dentsu •  Tohokushinsha Film Corporation •  Mitsubishi •  Studio Kajino •  Studio Ponoc •  Streamline Pictures •  Toei Animation •  Toei Company •  TopCraft •  Shochiku •  Toho •  The Walt Disney Company •  Central Park Media •  Sentai Filmworks •  GKIDS •  Madman Entertainment









 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater