Title: The Night of Taneyamagahara
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/The_Night_of_Taneyamagahara
--------------------------------------------------
The Night of Taneyamagahara






Kanji
種山ヶ原の夜


Rōmaji
Taneyamagahara no Yoru


Directed by
Kazuo Oga


Written by
Kazuo Oga


Distributed by
Studio Ghibli


Release date(s)
July 7, 2006


Running time
27 minutes


The Night of Taneyamagahara (種山ヶ原の夜 , Taneyamagahara no Yoru) is a short anime film written and directed by Kazuo Oga and released by Studio Ghibli. It was released on DVD in Japan on July 7, 2006.
The movie describes the daily life of mountains farmers and their struggles to keep moving while deepening their understanding of nature and the world they live in, as they encounter mysterious figures and appearances that may change their perspective on everything they have yet experienced. It is based on a 1924 short story of the same name by Kenji Miyazawa, a novelist previously had written classics such as Night on the Galactic Railroad, Matasaburo of the Wind, Gauche the Cellist. 
This was a personal film for director Oga, as he cited how he was inspired after reading a collection of Miyazawa's works after working on Princess Mononoke (1997).[1] A special screening was held from February 2 to 7, 2010 during A Ghibli Artisan - Kazuo Oga Exhibition - The One Who Painted Totoro's Forest at the Tokyo Museum of Contemporary Art.

Contents

1 Plot
2 Inspiration
3 Authors

3.1 Kenji Miyazawa
3.2 Kazuo Oga


4 Real-Life Location
5 Release
6 Cast
7 References
8 External links
9 Navigation


Plot[]
    Impoverish farmers spending the night at Taneyamagahara.  The story takes place when the Tohoku region suffered greatly from famine poverty. In a small corner of the Taneyamagahara plateau in the Kitakami Mountains of Iwate Prefecture, Ito, spends the night with three farmers awaiting dawn so they can begin cutting the grass.
Ito falls into a deep sleep and has a dream. In his dream, he spoke with the staff of the Yinglin Police Department about a place where he can earn a living cutting trees to burn charcoal. 
Suddenly, the spirits of the Taneyamagahara tree rose, the rose, and the rose appear. The spirits speak with Ito over whether or not to cut down the trees in the mountains. The mountain where the trees were "komon" is full of water, and akebi and mushrooms can be picked up for Ito. The land is rich and bountiful.
However, if Ito doesn't cut down the tree and burns charcoal, he won't be able to make living. The spirits that objected to cutting the tree said, "Then there is no way to cut down the tree. But burn me a nice charcoal." This is a mysterious story about Kenji Miyazawa telling people that they do are not the only thing who live in this world.

Inspiration[]
    Kazuo Oga was interviewed for the DVD release and excerpts can be found on the official site.  Kazuo Oga, writer and director of this film, wrote down his intentions for adapting Kenji Miyazawa's work. On Studio Ghibli's site, he gave a statement on his inspirations regarding this work.
"In Kenji Miyazawa's work, there are some stories that draw the heart. In particular, the works that depict the daily lives of people living in mountain villages and the scenery surrounding them capture my heart. Someday, I want to get into those stories and have the same experience as the characters, and reproduce the scenery as I saw there.
I've been wishing so for a long time. "The Night of Taneyamagahara" was one of the works I wanted to paint.
In the days when Kenji lived, I don't think the lives of people living in the mountains north were easy. While enduring harsh environments and labor, he must have enjoyed the blessings of the mountains and the harvest of a small amount of arable land, looked forward to seasonal events and festivals, and lived with gratitude and fear for nature. Because they were such people, they were sensitive to changes in the weather and mountains, and sometimes they heard the sound of mountains that looked mysterious, and they might have felt something by watching the movement of light and shadow for a moment.
I think it is a sense (ability) that modern people who have become insensitive due to strong stimuli and flooding of information are forgetting. While I made a living working in animation in Tokyo for many years, my thoughts were always in the mountains of Akita and Okuwa, where I was born and raised.

         Kazuo Oga - Taneyamagahara no Yoru (Trailer) The trailer for The Night of Taneyamagahara.  I have been walking around the bosons of the mountains since I was a child, and I have used the experiences I have experienced with nature as a source of nourishment necessary for my work and child-rearing. I want to leave the city as much as possible and send it in an environment as close as possible to the countryside where I was born and raised, so I have lived quietly for 20 years living in Hachioji, taking care of the mountains of Tama.
However, in this age when various information such as flashy things, huge things, and irritating things are flooded, it is difficult to live quietly by blocking the ear at all for such noise. And that's what I'm talking about. Because, when I live in a world without information, it is easier for the voice of nature and people's words to enter me, and in such a life, I feel that the power to feel something swells further by straining my eyes, listening, and interested in quiet things.
That's why I strongly yearn for this "one night" of Taneyamagahara, longing for the main character, Ito, while wanting to become Ito...
As for the music, I was originally thinking about orchestral music in a small organization, but my encounter with the Classical A Capella Group and Ensemble Planetare further expanded the world of Taneyamagahara with an ensemble with only a beautiful voice."[2]

Authors[]
Kenji Miyazawa[]
Kenji Miyazawa was born in 1896 in Hanamaki City, Iwate Prefecture. After graduating from Morioka Higher Agricultural and Forestry School (currently Iwate University Faculty of Agriculture), he completed graduate school in the same school. After working as a teacher at Hanamaki Agricultural School, he established the Rasuchijin Association and worked hard to teach agriculture while aiming for a literary career. He started writing tanka when he was a teenager, and since then has expanded his territory to poetry and fairy tales. 
In 1924, he published a collection of poems Spring and Shura and a collection of fairy tales A Restaurant With Many Orders, but only these two books were published in his lifetime. After who died suffering from tuberculosis in 1933, 37 years old, such as Night on the Galactic Railroad, Matasaburo of the Wind, Gauche the Cellist, a number of works have been published.[3]
Miyazawa took much inspiration from Taneyamagahara as both of his most notable works, Matasaburo of the Wind the drama The Night of Taneyamagahara are set in that area.

Kazuo Oga[]
Oga was born in 1952, Akita prefecture. In 1972, he joined Kobayashi Productions, an animation background art company, and worked as a background artist for numerous animated works. While working at Studio Ghibli, he was made the art director of My Neighbor Totoro, Pom Poko and Princess Mononoke. He was also in charge of the backgrounds of Howl's Moving Castle and Tales from Earthsea.

Real-Life Location[]
     Taneyamagahara in Iwate, Japan.  Taneyamagahara is a highland area located at an altitude of 600 to 870 m with the peak of Mount Taneyama, which straddles Oshu City, Kesen District, and Tono City, Iwate Prefecture. It is a plain-shaped mountain extending 11 km east–west and 20 km north–south in the southwestern part of the Kitakami Highlands, and is also known as Taneyama Kogen as a general term for Mt. Monomi, Mt. Omori, and Tateishi. 
Due to the gentle ridgeline of the peneplain and the cool climate, it has been used as a pasture for horses since the feudal era. Known as the plateau that Kenji Miyazawa loved so much, he left behind the fairy tales Kaze no Matasaburo and Taneyamagahara and the play Taneyamagahara Night based on the scenery and weather of Taneyamagahara.
As one of the natural scenic spots of Iwate, which was the source of Kenji Miyazawa's work, Scenic Land of Ihatov, Monomiyama is also designated as a national historic site[4]

Release[]
     Kazuo Oga at a special screening of his film.  The film was released on DVD on July 7, 2006. The home release came with a small booklet containing an interview with Kazuo Oga.
A special screening was held for the film during the long running, A Ghibli Artisan - Kazuo Oga Exhibition - The One Who Painted Totoro's Forest at the Tokyo Museum of Contemporary Art. The following copy was written, "This work is not only the beauty of the images depicting the original scenery of Japan, but also the music played as an insert song. 
Kenji Miyazawa's lyrics and composition Imperial and Largo-Symphony No. 9 "From the New World" (composed by A. Dvorak) liven up the story, and the clean singing voice of the ensemble planeta is also wonderful." Screenings were held from February 2 to 7, 2010.

Cast[]
Hatsuo Yamaya (山谷初男 / やまたにはつお , Yamaya Hatsuo)
References[]

↑ Official Ghibli site interview with Kazuo Oga.

↑ Official Ghibli site on Taneyamagahara's soundtrack.

↑ Kinokuniya profile on Kenji Miyazawa.

↑ Iwate and Taneyamagahara profile.


External links[]
Official

 The Night of Taneyamagahara on Studio Ghibli

Information

 The Night of Taneyamagahara on Anime News Network
 The Night of Taneyamagahara at the Internet Movie Database  
The Night of Taneyamagahara on Wikipedia
Interview

 The Night of Taneyamagahara on Studio Ghibli


Navigation[]






 V • T • E    Credits





Credits




Founders

Hayao Miyazaki (Director) •  Isao Takahata (Director) •  Toshio Suzuki (Producer) •   Yasuyoshi Tokuma (Executive Producer)





Notable Staff

Steve Alpert (Overseas Promotion Manager) •  Hideaki Anno (Director) •  Masashi Ando (Animator) •  Makiko Futaki (Animator) •  Hitomi Tateno (Animation Check) •  Toru Hara (Producer) •  Takeshi Inamura (Animator) •  Katsuya Kondō (Animation Director) •  Yoshifumi Kondō (Animation Director) •  Koji Hoshino (President) •  Megumi Kagawa (Animator) •  Yoshinori Kanada (Animator) •  Kitarō Kōsaka (Director) •  Kazuo Komatsubara (Art Director) •  Goro Miyazaki (Director) •  Tomomi Mochizuki (Director) •  Hiroyuki Morita (Director)  •  Yoshiyuki Momose (Animation Director) •  Yoshiaki Nishimura (Producer) •  Atsushi Okui (Director of Photography) •  Kazuo Oga (Background Artist) •  Shinsuke Nonaka (Production Affairs Manager) •  Kaoru Mano (Titles) •  Keiko Niwa (Screenwriter) •  Reiko Okuyama (Animator) •  Seiji Okuda (Director) •  Takeshi Seyama (Director) •  Masako Shinohara (Animator) •  Atsushi Takahashi (Storyboard) •  Yohei Takamatsu (Art Director) •  Atsuko Tanaka (Key Animator) •  Yôji Takeshige (Art Director) Kazuhide Tomonaga (Animator) •  Yasuo Uragami (Sound Director) •  Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Sound Director) •  Akihiko Yamashita (Animator Director) •  Michiyo Yasuda (Color Designer) •  Hiromasa Yonebayashi (Director) •  Nizô Yamamoto (Background Artist) •  Kenichi Yoshida (Animator) •  Noboru Yoshida (Art Director) •  Ushiko (Cat)





Music

Joe Hisaishi •  Michio Mamiya •  Yuji Nomi





Association

Eiko Kadono (Author) •  Tokiko Kato (Singer) •  John Lasseter (Director) •   Rieko Nakagawa (Author) •  Tatsuo Hori (Author) •  Mamoru Hosoda (Director) •  Yoshie Hotta (Author) •  Yōichi Kotabe (Senior Animator) •  Naohisa Inoue (Artist) •  Keisuke Miyazaki (Son) •  Kenji Miyazawa (Author) •  Yasuji Mori (Animation Director) •  Hideo Ogata (Animage Editor) •  Osamu Sagawa (Friend) •  Ryōtarō Shiba (Author) •  Mamiko Suzuki (Toshio Suzuki's Daughter) •  Mamoru Oshii (Director) •  Yasuo Ōtsuka (Director)





Affiliated Companies

Anime Torotoro •  NHK •  Nippon Animation •  Tokyo Movie Shinsha •  Fuji TV •  Oh! Production •  Pony Canyon •  Tokuma Shoten •  Tokuma International •  Shinchosha Publishing •  Dentsu •  Tohokushinsha Film Corporation •  Mitsubishi •  Studio Kajino •  Studio Ponoc •  Streamline Pictures •  Toei Animation •  Toei Company •  TopCraft •  Shochiku •  Toho •  The Walt Disney Company •  Central Park Media •  Sentai Filmworks •  GKIDS •  Madman Entertainment









 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater