Title: The Cat Returns
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/The_Cat_Returns
--------------------------------------------------
The Cat Returns






Kanji
猫の恩返し


Rōmaji
Neko no Ongaeshi


Directed by
Hiroyuki Morita


Produced by
Toshio SuzukiNozomu Takahashi


Screenplay by
Reiko Yoshida


Based on
The Cat Returns by Aoi Hiiragi


Starring
Chizuru IkewakiYoshihiko HakamadaTetsu WatanabeYosuke SaitoAki MaedaTetsurō Tamba


Music by
Yuji Nomi


Cinematography
Kentaro Takahashi


Art Directed by
Naoya Tanaka


Editing by
Megumi Uchida


Studio
Studio Ghibli


Production
Tokuma ShotenNippon Television NetworkHakuhodoWalt Disney International Japan/Buena Vista Home EntertainmentMitsubishiToho


Distributed by
Toho


Release date(s)
July 20, 2002


Running time
75 minutes


Budget
USD$20 million


Box office
¥6.46 billion (USD$54 million)


Streaming Platform(s)
HBO Max


The Cat Returns (猫の恩返し , Neko no Ongaeshi, literally The Cat's Repayment) is an animated film directed by Hiroyuki Morita and produced by Studio Ghibli for Tokuma Shoten, Nippon Television Network, Hakuhodo, Buena Vista Home Entertainment, Mitsubishi and Toho and was released on July 19, 2002. It was screened in theaters alongside Ghiblies Episode 2.
Based on Baron: The Cat Returns, a manga spin-off of Whisper of the Heart written by Aoi Hiiragi that was originally planned as a 20-minute promotional animated short for a cat-themed theme park starring Moon. The voice actor for the Baron was changed from Shigeru Tsuyuguchi to Yoshihiko Hakamada due to wanting to give the character a "youthful feeling" while Yoko Honna, who voiced Shizuku from Whisper of the Heart returns as Haru's classmate Chika. 
This is the only film so far to be directed by Hiroyuki Morita.
The poster's advertising slogan is "Isn't it okay to become a cat?" (猫になっても、いいんじゃないッ?).
It received an Excellence Prize at the 2002 Japan Media Arts Festival. The film earned a box office revenue of ¥6.46 billion, and was the top-grossing film of 2002, while it shipped an estimated 720,000 units on DVD and VHS as of May 2007.[1] GKIDS re-issued the film on Blu-ray and DVD on January 16, 2018, under a new deal with Studio Ghibli.
The film is available for streaming on Max, and purchasable on most digital storefronts.

Contents

1 Opening
2 Plot

2.1 The Encounter with Lune
2.2 The Cat King's Parade
2.3 To the Cat King's Palace
2.4 Escape from the Maze
2.5 I'm Home!


3 Behind the Scenes

3.1 Origin
3.2 Production


4 Release
5 Music

5.1 Theme Song


6 Manga
7 Trivia
8 Voice Cast

8.1 Additional Voices


9 Credits
10 Related Products

10.1 Home Video
10.2 Publishing
10.3 Music


11 References
12 External Links


Opening[]








The Cat ReturnsBaron's Narration


If you find yourself troubled 
by something mysterious or a problem 
that’s hard to solve, there’s a place 
you can go where you always find help. 
You just need to look for it.





Plot[]
The Encounter with Lune[]
“I hate this. Humiliated in front of the whole class. Machida was laughing too. I noticed that. Why? What's wrong with me? It must be some kind of omen. Something even worse is going to happen.”
—Haru being hard on herself

    Haru rescues Prince Lune from an accident.  Haru, a quiet and shy high school student who has a suppressed ability to talk with cats. One day, she sleeps through her alarm is late for class and is laughed at by practically everyone for trying to sneak in. While walking home, she admits to her friend Naoko that she actually likes a boy in her class named Machida but is too shy to ask him out. Naoko then reveals that he has a girlfriend, who happens to be a Freshman, the two have a friendly fight with each other. While walking, the girls notice a cat with a gift box crossing the street, while crossing the road the light turns green, and using her lacrosse stick, Haru saves a Russian Blue odd-eyed cat from being hit by a truck on a busy road. The cat stands up and thanks Haru for saving him, Haru is too surprised to even respond. After the cat leaves, Haru tells her friend that the cat spoke but she doesn't believe Haru. Later she tells her mother and her mother remembers how Haru once said she could talk to cats especially when she was younger, she gave a stray cat some fish crackers. 
The Cat King's Parade[]
That night, the king of the Cat Kingdom comes to thank her, he comes to her house with a parade which shocks the other cats and they chase after them (several bodyguards dispose of them).  As it turns out, the cat that Haru saved is named Lune, and he is the only Prince of the Cat Kingdom. In gratitude, the Cat King gives Haru a list of gifts she'll receive tomorrow, Haru thanks them and the King goes on his way. The next day, the gifts are shock to Haru and cause problems: Naoko has tons of Lacrosse sticks in her house which she questions, Haru's front yard is filled with cattails (which Haru is allergic to) as she is hurrying off to school, she gets chased by the neighborhood cats, which surprises her friends, they suspect she must have catnip on her (it is soon confirmed she does). When opening her locker, Haru discovers boxes full of mice which freak her out, thankfully the cats that were following her take care of them and the next day Haru ties her hair into a ponytail and her mum tells her the breakfast is delicious by eating the toast with egg and Haru tells her mum that's just mean and Haru grabs her work bag and she runs to school and everyone laughs at Haru while her teacher teaches her maths.
Wanting none of this, Haru starts to freak out about marrying a cat and even the fact that they are going to drag her off to the kingdom themselves, Haru hears a kind, female voice, which tells her to seek the Cat Bureau. Haru meets Muta, a large white cat the voice told her to seek for directions, who leads her there to meet the Baron (the same Baron from Whisper of the Heart), who is a cat figurine given life by the work of his artist, and Toto, a stone raven who comes to life much like the Baron. Soon after meeting them, Haru explains her situation and Muta is not amused, while Toto points out that he should be grateful that she saved his own kind and a fight insues. To divert all of this Baron invites Haru in for some tea which she finds delicious, according to Baron each time he makes it is's different. Muta tells her that the Cat Kingdom is no place you should be if you don't trust yourself. Baron actually suggests that he and Muta go there themselves and while Muta declines Baron is able to change is mentioning that they can discuss this over some cake. Toto in the meantime gets some of his special mulberries. Baron tells Haru to always believe in herself, if she does she will be less scared. While Baron prepping the cake with Muta the King's servant comes and as a result, Haru and (soon Muta) are forcefully taken to the Cat Kingdom, leaving Toto and the Baron in the human world to follow the group from the air. The Baron and his crow friend find the entrance to the Cat Kingdom on Earth: Five lakes forming a cat'.

To the Cat King's Palace[]
"We invite you to visit the Kingdom of Cats."
"The Kingdom of Cats?"
"It's heaven on earth. Beautiful scenery and scrumptious food. The whole kingdom is ready to welcome you. And there's more! His Majesty is very eager... to repay you for saving Prince Lune. You and the prince shall be married!"
"No way. That's completely impossible. I mean, he's a cat."

"What's wrong with that? He's not only a cat, he's cool!"
—Natoru convincing Haru to live in the Kingdom of Cats

    Haru is whisked away to the Cat Kingdom to be married off to Prince Lune by the Cat King.  When arriving there Haru is amazed at what she sees but a white cat with a red bow who tells Haru she must leave. However the servant comes along and says the King wants to meet her, she brings Muta along with her. While giving a new dress, Haru meets the king and Muta is helping himself to refreshments. She does tell the King she does not want to get married even though the King understood that she had agreed. The Prince does not know about this, in fact he is still away on business. She tries to tell the king why she can't marry the Prince: 1. They don't even know each other and 2. They are of two different species.  Haru begins to slowly turn into a cat with tan paws, ears and whiskers, though still mainly human, so that she will make a suitable bride for the Prince. Unfortunately, Muta is trapped inside a bowl of catnip jelly that is so thick he can't even move. An upset Haru is conducted to a feast at the castle of the Cat Kingdom. 
At the feast, Haru is sobbing and to cheer her up, the King suggests some entertainment. While the first act is a real crowd pleaser, it doesn't help Haru cheer up, the next two acts aren't any better as the King has two cats thrown out the window and makes it clear the next performance better be good OR ELSE!  Soon the Baron (in disguise) dances with Haru as part of the entertainment, and reveals to her that the more she loses herself in the kingdom, the more catlike she will become, and that she has to discover her true self. When the Baron is discovered and is forced to fight the guards, he and Haru are helped by Yuki, who happens to be a servant in the palace and who knows how Haru can become human: Haru has to leave the kingdom by dawn. Yuki shows them an escape leading to a tunnel.

Escape from the Maze[]
"Renaldo? Renaldo Moon? The Renaldo Moon? Now I remember!"
"What? -Have you forgotten, Sire? The most notorious crime in the Kingdom's history! A huge cat appeared suddenly... devoured all the fish in the lake, and escaped. That was Renaldo Moon, criminal of the century!"
"Unbelievable."
"He's a monster!"

"Muta, that's disgraceful, even for you."
—Muta's identity is discovered

    The Baron rescues Haru in dramatic fashion.  Haru, the Baron, and Muta's escape moves them through a maze to a tower, which contains a portal to Haru's world however everyone who has gone in there has never made it out alive. The King goes through a series of efforts to keep them in the Cat Kingdom long enough for Haru to remain trapped in the form of a cat and have her as his daughter-in-law. Thanks to the teams quick thinking they make to the top unfortunately, the king blows up the tower taking them back to where they started.
Lune and his guards return to the Cat Kingdom to reveal the King was not acting on his behalf at all and says he has no desire to marry Haru and he has instead planned on proposing to Yuki. Muta is revealed to be a notorious criminal in the Kingdom, having devoured a whole lake of fish in one session, and Yuki as being the strange voice who had advised Haru to go to the Cat Bureau. In her childhood, Haru had saved Yuki from starvation by giving her the fish crackers she was eating, and Yuki has now repaid her for her kindness.

I'm Home![]
"Is this going to be goodbye?"
"Baron, I think I have a crush on you."

"I like your honesty, Haru. You'll find your way to the Cat Business Office... if you ever really need us again. Until then, goodbye!"
—Haru confesses her feelings to Baron

     Yuki and Prince Lune grant Haru and her friends safe passage away from the Cat Kingdom.  Eventually, the Baron, Haru and Muta escape the Cat Realm, with the aid of Prince Lune and Toto, and Haru discovers her true self and tells the Baron how she has come to like him. He tells her "Just for the record, I admire a young woman who speaks from the heart." and that the doors of the Cat Bureau will be open for her again. 
Haru returns to the human world with more confidence in herself; after learning that her former crush has broken up with his girlfriend, she simply replies "it doesn't matter anymore."

Behind the Scenes[]
Origin[]
     Baron: The Cat Returns manga and Haru's initial design by Aoi Hiiragi.  In 1995, Studio Ghibli released Whispers Of The Heart, a film based on a manga by Aoi Hiiragi about a girl writing a fantasy novel. Although the girl's life had no magical elements, the film featured short fantasy scenes depicting what the girl was writing of.
In 1999, a theme park company commissioned Studio Ghibli to produce a 20-minute film around a theme: cats. Tentatively titled The Cat Project, Hayao Miyazaki became very interested and imposed a condition, that they use the characters of Muta and the Baron. According to Buta Connection, Miyazaki had a strong desire to create a fantastical adventure film after the success of his prior films. He wanted a movie in the vein of Whisper of the Heart by the late Yoshifumi Kondō which was a great success in 1995. He therefore asked the author of the manga that inspired the film, Aoi Hiiragi, to write a new story serving as the basis for the short project.

     The Baron Baron and Muta return to help Haru out of a bind.  Using elements from Whisper of the Heart, such as the Baron, Muta, and a mysterious antique shop - Aoi Hiiragi created a new manga called Baron: The Cat Returns (バロン 猫の男爵 Baron: Neko no Danshaku (later published in English by Viz Media). This manga being a commissioned work was therefore not published under the Shûeisha label, as was the case for Whisper of the Heart, but under that of Tokuma Publishing (of which Studio Ghibli was still a subsidiary of at this time) through Animage Comics Special titled: Baron - Neko no Danshaku and dated May 2002.
During an interview, Hiiragi explain her process, "(Haru) is an ordinary high school student, as there are everywhere. It was important that it be like this, so that viewers were captivated by the story. Then I created the frame for the story, the core of which is Haru's strange experience. The charm of imaginary tales lies in their unique and original vision of the world. I like the imagination, and I often read this kind of books. But when I had to write such a story myself, I wondered what worldview to create. Thus was born the Kingdom of cats. I made it into a world where everything is possible, nothing is really important. 

     Image Boards showing Haru seeking out the Cat Bureau after she is summoned by the Cat King.  The character who reigns over this country must therefore have been a little unusual. I then created the king of cats. The reason Haru goes there is this somewhat embarrassing "debt" the cats owe her. This is how the story was born. The character who reigns over this country must therefore have been a little unusual. I then created the king of cats. The reason Haru goes there is this somewhat embarrassing "debt" the cats owe her. This is how the story was born.
In order to portray the Baron, I imagined a story written by Shizuku, the heroine of "Whisper of the Heart", who would have been a grown up. This completed story is published under the title "Baron: The Cat Returns". On the occasion of this publication, I wanted to put: “Author: Shizuku Tsukishima - Drawings: Aoi Hiiragi." But it was an unrealistic idea and I backed out. Now that you know its genesis, I hope, as the author of the original work, that you enjoy seeing the cartoon and reading the comic. And I would be happy if you thought about what happiness is in the company of Haru."

     Hayao Miyazaki was confident Hiroyuki Morita was up to the task of directing his first feature film.  Unfortunately the story Hiiragi has developed was much longer than originally intended. In addition, the theme park that commissioned Ghibli withdrew its request due to economic problems. Thankfully, Studio Ghibli chose to continue to adapt Hiiragi's work as a 45 minute direct-to-video release, wanting to avoid placing too much pressure on the shoulders of the future director of the film.
Indeed, Miyazaki set up the project with the aim of giving a chance to young filmmakers. He has already set up directing courses within the Studio to find a successor, but no talent emerged immediately. Isao Takahata then suggested the young Hiroyuki Morita, a young collaborator of the Ghibli studio. He had noticed a great sensitivity in him when he took charge of the key drawings of "My Neighbors the Yamadas" (1999) and "Koro's Big Day Out" (2002), shown at the Ghibli Museum. Morita, aware of the incredible opportunity that presented itself to him, agreed to direct his first film.

Production[]
     The production announcement of "The Cat Returns" was held at the Ghibli Museum.  Over a nine-month period he translated Hiiragi's Baron story into 525 pages of storyboards for what was to be The Cat Returns. Miyazaki and Toshio Suzuki decided to produce a feature-length film based entirely on Morita's storyboard; this was partly because Haru, the main character, had a "believable feel to her". It became the second theatrical (third overall) Studio Ghibli feature to be directed by someone other than Miyazaki or Takahata.
A heavy sense of responsibility set on Morita as he became the head of a team of 387 people. He initially regretted his choice, thinking that he was not up to the task. In particular, he took a long time to grasp the spirit of shojo (comic book for girls) and it was only after many mistakes and trials and the unwavering support of his team that the adaptation took shape.
When asked what were the challenges he faced, Morita elaborated, "Girls' comics focus on the feelings, desires of girls. But it is imperceptible. It remains vague. In dealing with this kind of subject, it is inevitably difficult to remain objective. But I stopped doubting and decided to reason in the opposite direction. If this story is to be made into a movie, what kind of girl will Haru be? How will the Cat Bureau be? the Baron? And Muta?"

     The cast and cats of "The Cat Returns".  The character design was entrusted to renowned animator Satoko Morikawa, whose work remained faithful to its source manga. However, the designs lacked a level of detail and complexity found in previous Ghibli films. The designs of the Baron and Muta remained faithful to what was already present in "Whisper of the Heart", and the animation conveyed a strong sense of personality. Muta himself is based on Ushiko, the resident cat who wanders inside Studio Ghibli's offices.
"With regards to Haru's design Morita explains, "What first struck me was his sentence: "Maybe the Cat Kingdom isn't so bad..." It is easy to demonstrate that our world is neither so dazzling, not quite as gorgeous as the one portrayed in shojo comics. There are indeed many dirty, vile things. But that kind of talk is not for fans of Aoi Hiiragi's comics. I actually asked the women at Studio Ghibli to tell me about the charms of shojo comics and little by little I started to understand."

     The shop where Prince Lune picks up his cake is modeled after a real-life cake shop called "Mynt" in Koenji, Tokyo.  "I thought (Haru's expressions) are cute. I like this kind of girl, open, natural, cheerful and sensitive. But some may find her indecisive and stupid."[2]
On the other hand, manga author Aoi Hiiragi explains how she went about writing the character of Haru, "When I was offered this job, I thought that the kind of thing I was expected to do as a shojo artist was expected of me. That's why I decided that my heroine would be a high school student. At that time, I often reflected on what happiness is for a human being, and I believe this question runs through my story.
Shojo manga are often about love. For a teenage girl, happiness is loving and being loved in return. But I think there are a lot of other forms of happiness. Even if, in everyday life, we often feel like we are unlucky.
This film is a story that takes place in an imaginary world. Haru travels to the Cat Kingdom. After her return, she may encounter other difficult situations, but her experience will allow her to be less unhappy and have a more open outlook. This is what I had in mind while writing this story."

     Storyboards of the film by Hiroyuki Morita.  Art director Naoya Tanaka who previously worked on Princess Mononoke and My Neighbors the Yamadas gave the film a lighter, more intimate tone. When designing the Cat Bureau, Tanaka explains, "By inserting all kinds of European elements, drawing flowers, marigolds and geraniums, I created a European neighborhood atmosphere. The light is like that of the real world. Nevertheless, the notion of size is important: the houses are smaller whereas I have drawn life-size plants."
During the sequence where the Baron chases after the cats that have kidnapped Haru, Tanaka references several photographs for the alleyways and sought to reproduce their details accurately. The cat kingdom itself was given the direction of being "overflowing with light", with little contrast to enhance its lighter tone. Tanaka explains, "I think I managed to represent a clear light, which pierces the sky. Scenes in remote streets or night scenes are never moody. All give an impression of cheerfulness and clarity."
The entire vocal recording was performed by Kazuhiro Hayashi, who worked on Princess Mononoke and Spirited Away. The animators lent their voices for several characters, and even provided "meow" noises. They even tried to imitate the muffled applause of cats with their hands. All In all, The Cat Returns featured over 900 recorded dialogues.

Release[]


Country

Release Date

Format

Publisher


Japan 
July 19, 2002
Theater
Toho


Japan 
April 14, 2003
VHS
Toho


USA 
Summer 2003
English Dub
The Walt Disney Company


USA 
September 28, 2005
DVD
The Walt Disney Company


     July 5, 2002 edition of Yomiuri Shimbun talking about The Cat Returns being shown with Ghiblies Episode 2.  "The Cat Returns" runtime barely clocked in at 75 minutes and did not have the scale or ambition of Ghibli's previous films, and was released in theaters with the short film "Ghiblies Episode 2". Riding on the success of "Spirited Away" (2001), the promotion of "The Cat Returns" was relatively aggressive, with several sponsors churning out a number of merchandise tie-ins. 
The film received coverage from various newspapers prior to the premiere. The July 5, 2002 evening newspaper of the Yomiuri Shimbun did a feature and included an interview with producer Toshio Suzuki. The interview was about the process of how the film became a feature-length film. Hiroyuki Morita was also interviewed, though many questioned why Hayao Miyazaki wasn't involved. Morita explains they both have different approaches in filmmaking. Included in the feature is an advertisement for the upcoming Spirited Away DVD.

     News coverage on the film's premiere event, featuring the cast and crew.  Fans noted that the Tokyo Chunichi Sports newspaper offered only modest coverage of the film's premiere, compared to the newspaper Hochi which was comparatively large in scale.
A press conference was held on July 20, 2002, and the film premiered in on over 358 screens nationwide. Hibiya Cinema in Tokyo and Yurakucho was filled to capacity, with 700 spectators and included a midnight screening of 250 people. Chizuru Ikewaki, the voice actor of Haru and Yoshihiko Hakamada, the voice actor of Baron were present on stage to greet the crowd. 

     A press conference on July 2002.  While Hiroyuki Morita was not present during the event, Hochi Newspapers noted this by saying, "First supervisor Mr. Morita refused to attend the greeting event." While the film rode on the success and goodwill of “Spirited Away", it only sold half of the former's ticket sales. The film was still the big hit during the summer 2002 in Japan, racking up $50 million at the box office.[3]
Music[]
     The cover to the soundtrack of the film.  The Cat Returns (Original Soundtrack) (猫の恩返し オリジナル・サウンド・トラック , Neko no Ongaeshi Orijinaru Saundotorakku) The album was composed and arranged by Yuji Nomi and features the theme song by Ayano Tsuji. It was published by Tokuma Japan Communications and released on July 17, 2002.
Nomi explains his process, “For the music for this film, I started with demonstration pieces, composed from the ideas I had of the characters. I first composed the songs for the heroine, Haru. There are two: the one that corresponds to the real world and the one that relates to his childhood memories. For the first, I tried to show the bubbling of everyday life, the hustle and bustle of real world scenes. But it didn't correspond to the director's image of it and I changed this music a lot afterwards! The other piece is nostalgic. In a way, it seems to me that he became the central theme of the film.
Next came the Baron Baron. He's a simple and incredibly elegant character. Therefore, I composed an extremely pompous piece, like trumpets playing fanfare music. As for Muta, I transposed its rustic side into music. I composed the theme of the king of cats so that it seems to illustrate the Kingdom. Behind its majestic, imposing appearance, this Kingdom appears to be a sham. I didn't want to give a good impression of it. I wanted the contrast with the Baron, who comes to save Haru, to be striking.

     Yuji Nomi being interviewed in the "Making-of" documentary featured in the film's DVD release.  For the music played by the cats parading at the beginning of the film, the director asked me to use the sound of the oriental flute, which sounds very ... "cat"! It may sound a bit Japanese. But the Cat Kingdom is not Japan, I added the organ, oboe and clarinet, despite everything being punctuated by the tsuzumi, a small Japanese drum. Why the tsuzumi? Quite simply because among the cats who interpret this music in the image, there is one who plays this instrument! This piece fits perfectly to the image. The same goes for the music performed by the orchestra of cats in the banquet scene at the castle. As one of them plays the tsuzumi and another, the accordion, I integrated these two instruments into my music.
So I composed the music for this film from the characters or the scenes. For the music of the scene where Haru returns from the Cat Kingdom safe and sound, there is something that I think will not escape viewers who have seen 'Whisper of the Heart'. I wanted, through my music, to establish a connection between these two films. I'll let you watch the movie and find my nod yourself."

Theme Song[]
     The single's cover featured Ayano Tsuji staring at the film's cast of cats. It was released on June 26, 2002 by Victor Entertainment.  Become the Wind (風になる , Kaze ni Naru), Lyrics / Composition / Song - Ayano Tsuji / Arrangement- Takami Negishi / String / Arrangement - Takuo Yamamoto
The single was released by SPEEDSTAR RECORDS, a division of Victor Entertainment. On her website, Tsuji explained her process when composing the film's theme:
“As I really like Ghibli cartoons, I was extremely happy that they asked me to compose the main theme of it. Regarding the central song of the film, I was a little worried about the difficulty of this work, thinking of all the constraints to be respected. But the director told me: “I don't want a ballad, but a rhythmic song, drawn from your universe."

         つじあやの - 風になる（Music Video） Official music video of Ayano Tsuji's "Become the Wind". The song reached 13th place on the Oricon music charts. An acoustic version of this song was used in the film's credits.  When I composed it, the film was not yet finished and I got an idea of ​​it by reading the storyboard. I felt a lot of sympathy for the positive character of the heroine, Haru, and her way of being good to her. I wanted to express clearly in my song the change that is taking place in her, not in a blatant way but rather gradual. About to be taken to the Cat Kingdom, she thought to herself, “The Cat Kingdom... After all, why not live here? "You can encounter this kind of situation during your life. By following the general thread of his life, it can happen that we are attracted by slightly different paths, that we make detours. It's part of human nature. And so you end up finding what is important to you. I think this is the theme of this film: knowing how to assert your own identity. It is something magnificent. I wanted this theme to be reflected in my song.
         猫の恩返し「風になる」歌：ザ ブリーズ アドベンチャーズ The Cat Returns - Become the Wind - Song by The Breeze Adventures Acapella group The Breeze Adventures sang "Become the Wind", part of the "Lots of Memories of Ghibli" project, which was aimed to performing Ghibli's most memorable songs across Japan.  The song was born naturally, in a hum: “Close your eyes that have forgotten. It is the song of love found..." In these lyrics, the word" love "is not used only in its original meaning. It also refers to the feelings of humans towards life, work, study, dreams and all kinds of things. At the beginning of the song, it seems to me that behind the sweetness lies an extremely strong will. I really like this passage. The keystone of this song is “the feelings that we have forgotten." I made by putting in unison my feelings and those of Haru, and I illustrated by a joyous melody.
For the title, I wanted to use the word 'wind' and after much thought it occurred to me that I would like to become the wind. So I opted for the title "Kaze ni Naru"."

Manga[]
Baron: The Cat Returns is a 2002 Japanese adventure fantasy manga written by Aoi Hiiragi and published by Tokuma Shoten and Viz Media.

Trivia[]
It's been speculated that the Cat King is based on Hayao Miyazaki while Haru is based on Mamoru Hosada. In 2000, Hosoda was hired by Miyazaki to direct Howl's Moving Castle, but left due to various reasons.[4]
Natoru's gender is changed from female to male in the English dub, given Andy Richter voiced the character.
Muta is based on Ushiko, the resident cat that wanders around Studio Ghibli's offices.
Yo Oizumi, Ken Yasuda, and Takayuki Suzui appear as voice actors for small roles in the film.
Moon's" name from Whisper of the Heart was changed to Muta as a nod to a professional wrestler named "The Great Muta" by Hayao Miyazaki. According to Aoi Hiiragi, "Mr. Miyazaki. He said something like "There is a strong professional wrestler called Great Muta ..." (laughs)."[5]
In the original draft, the "Cat Kingdom" was a place where deceased cats live forever. The theme of losing a pet was deemed too heavy by the filmmakers.
Hayao Miyazaki's offered advice regarding the finale where Haru, Baron and Muta float to the ground with Toto, but it was not adopted. Hiroyuki Morita recalls, Hayao Miyazaki advised me to have Haru say, "Baron, I think I have a crush on you.". However, all the staff rejected this proposal." Morita adds, "I don't intend to compete with Miyazaki, but I couldn't sympathize with this idea." However, I understood the purpose of releasing Haru feelings and heart in the scene, so I added the line "Maybe we are cool!".
Voice Cast[]


Character

Original

English


Haru Yoshioka

Chizuru Ikewaki

Anne Hathaway


Yûji Kishi (young Haru)

Katia Coe (young Haru)


Humbert von Gikkingen

Yoshihiko Hakamada

Cary Elwes


Muta

Tetsu Watanabe

Peter Boyle


Toto

Yōsuke Saitō

Elliott Gould


Prince Lune

Takayuki Yamada

Andrew Bevis


Yuki

Aki Maeda

Judy Greer


The Cat King

Tetsurō Tanba

Tim Curry


Hiromi

Hitomi Satō

Kristen Bell


Natoru

Mari Hamada

Andy Richter


Natori

Kenta Satoi

René Auberjonois


Naoko Yoshioka

Kumiko Okae

Kristine Sutherland


Chika

Youko Honna

Erin Chambers

Additional Voices[]
Original: Makoto Aoki, Katsumi Chô, Daisuke Egawa, Yayoi Kazuki, Tae Komamura, Mitsuru Miyamoto, Toshihiro Nakamura, Yo Oizumi, Toshitaka Shimizu, Tarusuke Shingaki, Yuri Shiratori, Takayuki Suzui, Bari Suzuki, Atsuko Tanaka, Keiko Tsukamoto, Ken Yasuda, Hikari Yono
English: Greg Berg, Robert Clotworthy (Teacher), Kat Cressida, Terri Douglas, Courtnee Draper (High School Student), Jason Harris, Brian Herskowitz, Mona Marshall (Old Lady, Others), Randy Montgomery, Bradley Pierce (Machida), Diz White
Credits[]


Credit

Staff


Director, Storyboard
Hiroyuki Morita


Script
Reiko Yoshida


Character Design
Satoko Morikawa


Art Director
Naoya Tanaka


Animation Director
Ei Inoue, Kazutaka Ozaki


Key Animation
Atsuko Otani, Ayako Hata, Emiko Shimura, Hideaki Yoshio, Hiroomi Yamakawa, Hiroyuki Aoyama, Hisao Yokobori, Jun Sekiguchi, Katsutoshi Nakamura, Kazuhide Tomonaga, Keiko Nakaji, Keiko Shimizu, Ken Baba, Kenichi Yamaguchi, Mariko Matsuo, Masafumi Yokota, Masahiro Koyama, Masahiro Kurio, Masako Sato, Michio Mihara, Michiyo Suzuki, Mineko Ueda, Minoru Ohashi, Miwa Sasaki, Nagisa Miyazaki, Nobuyuki Takeuchi, Sawako Miyamoto, Shigeo Akahori, Shigeru Kimishima, Shinichiro Yamada, Shinji Otsuka, Shinobu Mori, Tadashi Hiramatsu, Tadashi Okumura, Teiichi Takiguchi, Tetsuya Nishio, Toshiharu Sugie, Toshiyuki Komaru, Yoshiharu Satō, Yoshinobu Michihata, Yuichi Tanaka


In-between Animation
Akihiko Adachi, Akiko Teshima, Alexandra Weihrauch, Chiharu Haraguchi, Chikako Sasagawa, Chizuko Koike, Eun Hee An, Eun Me Pyun, Eun Sun Kim, Gosei Oda, Hee Eun Choi, Hiromi Sasaki, Hitomi Tateno, Hye-Soon Byun, Hye-Sung Lee, Hyeon Soo Joung, Hyo-Sun Lee, Hyun Mi Cho, Ikuko Shimada, Jee Young Soung, Jeong Ho Jang, Ji Eun Kim, Jin Ju Go, Jin Young Han, Jung-Hee Kim, Kanako Satō, Kasumi Hara, Keiko Tomizawa, Keisuke Shimohira, Kiyoko Makita, Kumiko Tanihara, Kyong Sook Park, Mai Nakazato, Makiko Suzuki, Mariko Suzuki, Masako Sakano, Masako Terada, Masami Nakanishi, Masaya Saito, Maya Fujimori, Mayumi Ohmura, Mi Kyoung Yoon, Mi Ok Lee, Minori Noguchi, Mioko Katano, Miyoko Shikibu, Morihiko Yano, Moyo Takahashi, Myung-Hee Youn, Naoko Takahashi, Nozomu Ito, Seiko Azuma, Seon Ea Kim, Shinobu Saeki, Shunsuke Hirota, So-Young Lee, Soon Yang Ryu, Soon Yeol Choi, Soon-Ha Hwang, Su-Jin Hwang, Suk-Hwa Park, Takahiro Sugawara, Tsutomu Kaichi, Yoko Matsumoto, Youn-Hee Jeong, Young Hee Joung, Young Hee Jung, Yukari Umebayashi, Yukari Yamaura, Yukie Takahashi, Yumiko Kitajima, Yun Ju Yang


Editing
Megumi Uchida


Director of Photography
Kentaro Takahashi


Sound Director
Kazuhiro Hayashi


Background Art
Hiromasa Ogura (Ogura Kobo), Hiromitsu Narumi, Hiroshi Gouroku (Ogura Kobo), Kazuo Oga, Kikuyo Yano, Masaki Yoshizaki, Masako Osada, Mitsuo Yoshino, Naomi Kasugai, Noboru Yoshida, Og Chul Shin, Osamu Masuyama, Ryoko Ina, Ryutaro Ueda (Ogura Kobo), Sayaka Hirahara, Shihomi Suzuki (Ogura Kobo), Takanori Tanaka (Ogura Kobo), Takashi Omori, Tomoe Ishihara, Yohei Takamatsu, Yoshikazu Fukutome, Youji Takeshige


Color Design
Osamu Mikasa


Digital Ink & Paint
Akiko Nasu, Akiko Sato, Akiko Shimizu, Eiko Inoue, Eriko Ishikawa, Eun Kyoung Kang, Eun Sil Lee, Fumie Kawamata, Fumino Okura, Haruna Kiryu, Hiromi Takahashi, Hiroshi Iijima, Hyeon Ok Choi, Hyun Ji An, Hyun Suk Kim, Jin A Park, Kaori Seki, Kuk Dong Han, Kumi Nanjo, Kyoung Mi Kim, Mi Ae Na, Mi-Sung Jang, Miho Fujimori, Naho Mitsuishi, Nobuko Takahashi, Noriko Matsumoto, Oh Soon Kang, Ryuji Uchida, Sayuri Nagashima, Shihomi Miyachi, Tomoko Yamamoto, Yong Kyoung Park, Youn Hee Lee, Youn Suk Ra, Young Shim Lee, Yukiko Kakita, Yun Hee Park


Executive Producers
Hideyuki Takai, Hironori Aihara, Koji Hoshino, Seiichiro Ujiie, Takeyoshi Matsushita, Toshio Miyagawa


Producer
Toshio Suzuki


Music
Yuji Nomi


Production
Studio Ghibli

Related Products[]
Home Video[]
The Cat Returns / Ghiblies Episode 2 VHS - Buena Vista Home Entertainment (July 4, 2003)
The Cat Returns / Ghiblies Episode 2 DVD Buena Vista Home Entertainment (July 4, 2003)
The Cat Returns / Ghiblies Episode 2 Blu-ray Disc -Walt Disney Studios Japan (December 4, 2013)
Publishing[]
Ribon Mascot Comics Whisper of the Heart Happy Time (February 20, 1996) ISBN 4-08-853841-2
Animage Comics Special Baron: The Cat Returns (May 20, 2002) ISBN 4-19-770088-1
The Other Side of the Alley is the Kingdom of Cats - The Cat Returns & Ghiblies Thorough Guide (July 20, 2002) ISBN 4-04-853527-7
Longtail of Baron: Another story of a Cat Baron spun with a Picture Book and Mook (July 20, 2002) ISBN 4-906069-35-5
Ghibli Cats (August 2, 2002) ISBN 4-7966-2822-3
The Cat Returns Guide Book - Studio Ghibli and the World of Fantasy (TOKUMA LADY'S MOOK) (August 25, 2002) ISBN 4-19-700022-7
What The Cat Taught Me "The Cat Returns" Cheering Party (August 31, 2002) ISBN 4-19-861562-4
The Cat Returns (Tokuma Anime Picture Book) (August 31, 2002) ISBN 4-19-861570-5
The Cat Returns-Film Comics (1) (September 1, 2002) ISBN 4-19-770089-X
The Cat Returns-Film Comics (2) (September 10, 2002) ISBN 4-19-770092-X
The Cat Returns-Film Comics (3) (October 1, 2002) ISBN 4-19-770094-6
The Cat Returns-Film Comics (4) (October 1, 2002) ISBN 4-19-770095-4
The Art of the Cat Returns (September 10, 2002) ISBN 4-19-810008-X
The Cat Returns (Roman Album) (September 10, 2002) ISBN 4-19-720213-X
The Cat Returns (This Is Animation) (September 20, 2002) ISBN 4-09-101567-0
Baron (Fairbell Comics) (December 7, 2006) ISBN 4-86245-020-2
Music[]
The Cat Returns Soundtrack, Tokuma Japan Communications (July 17, 2002) TKCA-72367
References[]

↑ "1.1 million distribution. Unique promotion for the "Tales from Earthsea" DVD directed by Goro Miyazaki", Nikkei Business Online, May 21, 2007.

↑ "Interview with Hiroyuki Morita", Buta Connection.

↑ Asahi Archive for The Cat Returns

↑ "Is Hayao Miyazaki's successor problem hidden in the Friday Road Show's broadcast of "The Cat Returns"?", Excite JP

↑ Cat Returns Trivia, Ghibli JPN.


External Links[]
Official Sites

 The Cat Returns on Studio Ghibli
 The Cat Returns on Walt Disney Japan
 The Cat Returns on GKIDS
 The Cat Returns on HBO Max
Information

 The Cat Returns on Anime News Network
 The Cat Returns at the Internet Movie Database  
Encyclopedia

The Cat Returns on Wikipedia
Manga

Baron: The Cat Returns Manga on Amazon
Baron: The Cat Returns Kindle Edition on Amazon






 V • T • E    Credits





Credits




Founders

Hayao Miyazaki (Director) •  Isao Takahata (Director) •  Toshio Suzuki (Producer) •   Yasuyoshi Tokuma (Executive Producer)





Notable Staff

Steve Alpert (Overseas Promotion Manager) •  Hideaki Anno (Director) •  Masashi Ando (Animator) •  Makiko Futaki (Animator) •  Hitomi Tateno (Animation Check) •  Toru Hara (Producer) •  Takeshi Inamura (Animator) •  Katsuya Kondō (Animation Director) •  Yoshifumi Kondō (Animation Director) •  Koji Hoshino (President) •  Megumi Kagawa (Animator) •  Yoshinori Kanada (Animator) •  Kitarō Kōsaka (Director) •  Kazuo Komatsubara (Art Director) •  Goro Miyazaki (Director) •  Tomomi Mochizuki (Director) •  Hiroyuki Morita (Director)  •  Yoshiyuki Momose (Animation Director) •  Yoshiaki Nishimura (Producer) •  Atsushi Okui (Director of Photography) •  Kazuo Oga (Background Artist) •  Shinsuke Nonaka (Production Affairs Manager) •  Kaoru Mano (Titles) •  Keiko Niwa (Screenwriter) •  Reiko Okuyama (Animator) •  Seiji Okuda (Director) •  Takeshi Seyama (Director) •  Masako Shinohara (Animator) •  Atsushi Takahashi (Storyboard) •  Yohei Takamatsu (Art Director) •  Atsuko Tanaka (Key Animator) •  Yôji Takeshige (Art Director) Kazuhide Tomonaga (Animator) •  Yasuo Uragami (Sound Director) •  Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Sound Director) •  Akihiko Yamashita (Animator Director) •  Michiyo Yasuda (Color Designer) •  Hiromasa Yonebayashi (Director) •  Nizô Yamamoto (Background Artist) •  Kenichi Yoshida (Animator) •  Noboru Yoshida (Art Director) •  Ushiko (Cat)





Music

Joe Hisaishi •  Michio Mamiya •  Yuji Nomi





Association

Eiko Kadono (Author) •  Tokiko Kato (Singer) •  John Lasseter (Director) •   Rieko Nakagawa (Author) •  Tatsuo Hori (Author) •  Mamoru Hosoda (Director) •  Yoshie Hotta (Author) •  Yōichi Kotabe (Senior Animator) •  Naohisa Inoue (Artist) •  Keisuke Miyazaki (Son) •  Kenji Miyazawa (Author) •  Yasuji Mori (Animation Director) •  Hideo Ogata (Animage Editor) •  Osamu Sagawa (Friend) •  Ryōtarō Shiba (Author) •  Mamiko Suzuki (Toshio Suzuki's Daughter) •  Mamoru Oshii (Director) •  Yasuo Ōtsuka (Director)





Affiliated Companies

Anime Torotoro •  NHK •  Nippon Animation •  Tokyo Movie Shinsha •  Fuji TV •  Oh! Production •  Pony Canyon •  Tokuma Shoten •  Tokuma International •  Shinchosha Publishing •  Dentsu •  Tohokushinsha Film Corporation •  Mitsubishi •  Studio Kajino •  Studio Ponoc •  Streamline Pictures •  Toei Animation •  Toei Company •  TopCraft •  Shochiku •  Toho •  The Walt Disney Company •  Central Park Media •  Sentai Filmworks •  GKIDS •  Madman Entertainment









 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater