Title: The Tale of the Princess Kaguya
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/The_Tale_of_the_Princess_Kaguya
--------------------------------------------------
The Tale of the Princess Kaguya




Japanese theatrical release poster


Kanji
かぐや姫の物語


Rōmaji
Kaguya-hime no Monogatari


Directed by
Isao Takahata


Produced by
Yoshiaki Nishimura


Screenplay by
Isao TakahataRiko Sakaguchi


Based on
The Tale of the Bamboo Cutter


Narrated by
Lucy Liu (English)


Starring
Aki AsakuraKengo KoraTakeo ChiiNobuko Miyamoto


Music by
Joe Hisaishi


Cinematography
Keisuke Nakamura


Editing by
Toshihiko Kojima


Studio
Studio Ghibli


Production
Nippon Television NetworkDentsuHakuhodo DYMPWalt Disney JapanMitsubishiTohoKDDI


Distributed by
Toho


Release date(s)
November 23, 2013


Running time
137 minutes


Budget
¥5 billion(US$49.3 million)


Box office
¥2.5 billion(US$24.2 million)


Streaming Platform(s)
HBO Max


The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (Japanese: かぐや姫の物語 Hepburn: Kaguya-hime no Monogatari ) is the 20th animated fantasy drama film produced by Studio Ghibli and directed and co-written by Isao Takahata, based on the folktale The Tale of the Bamboo Cutter. It is Takahata's fifth film for Studio Ghibli, and his first since My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999). It was released on November 23, 2013. It was also his last film before he died in 2018. 
The film received critical acclaim and was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature at the 87th Academy Awards.
This is the first film since Kiki's Delivery Service that is not produced solely by Toshio Suzuki.
The film is available for streaming on Max, and purchasable on most digital storefronts.

Contents

1 Plot
2 Voice Cast

2.1 Additional Voices


3 Production
4 Release
5 Reception

5.1 Box office
5.2 Critical reception
5.3 Accolades


6 External links
7 Navigation


Plot[]
    Princess Kaguya as a baby trying to lie down on tummy  
A bamboo cutter named Sanuki no Miyatsuko discovers a miniature girl inside a glowing bamboo shoot. Believing her to be a divine presence, Miyatsuko and his wife decide to raise her as their own, calling her "Princess". The girl grows rapidly and conspicuously, marveling her parents and earning her the nickname "Takenoko" (Little Bamboo) from the other children in the village. Sutemaru, the oldest among Kaguya's friends, develops a particularly close relationship with her.

    Princess Kaguya wrapping cloth around Sutemaru's wounded arm.  
Miyatsuko comes upon gold and fine cloth in the bamboo grove in the same way he found his daughter. He takes these as proof of her divine royalty and begins planning to make her a proper princess. He soon relocates the family to the capital, forcing her to leave her friends behind. She finds herself in a mansion, replete with servants and fine clothes. She is also saddled with a governess who is tasked with taming her into a proper noblewoman. She struggles with the restraints of nobility, arguing that life should be full of laughter and struggle.    Princess Kaguya fleeing the capital  
When the girl comes of age, she is granted the formal name of "Princess Kaguya" for the light and life that radiates from her. Miyatsuko holds a celebration in commemoration of Kaguya's naming. At the celebration, Kaguya overhears party-goers ridiculing her father's attempts to turn a peasant girl into a noble through money. Kaguya flees the capital in despair and runs back to the mountains, seeking Sutemaru and her other friends, but discovers that they have all moved away. Kaguya passes out in the snow and awakens back at the party.

     Suitors of Princess Kaguya  
Kaguya grows in beauty, attracting scores of would-be suitors. Five men of noble standing court her, comparing her to mythical treasures. Not wanting to marry any of them, Kaguya tells them she will only marry whoever can bring her the mythical treasure mentioned. Two suitors unsuccessfully attempt to persuade her with counterfeits. The third abandons his conquest out of cowardice, and the fourth attempts to woo her with flattering lies and a promise of life in the countryside. When one of the men is killed in his quest, Kaguya falls into depression. Eventually, the Emperor himself takes notice of her. Taken with her beauty, he makes advances toward her, revolting her. Kaguya then demonstrates the ability to disappear at will, surprising the Emperor. Understanding that he has been too forward, the Emperor takes his leave, determined to still make Kaguya his.
Kaguya reveals to her parents that she originally came from the Moon. When the Emperor made his advances, she silently begged the Moon to help her and learned the truth: Once a resident of the Moon, she broke its laws, hoping to be exiled to Earth, so that she could experience mortal life. Now having heard her prayer, the Moon will reclaim her during the next full moon. Kaguya confesses her attachment to Earth and her reluctance to leave.

     Princess Kaguya embraces Sutemaru whilst flying in the air  
Miyatsuko swears to protect Kaguya and begins assembling defensive forces. Kaguya returns to her hometown in the mountains once more. She finds Sutemaru and tells him she would have been happiest with him; Sutemaru vows to protect her, and they fly through the air together. When the Moon shines upon Kaguya, she begs Sutemaru to hold her tightly. Despite Sutemaru's best efforts, Kaguya is torn from his grasp out of the sky. He awakens alone in a field, and convinced that it had been a dream, returns to his wife and child.
On the night of the full moon, a procession of celestial beings descends from the Moon, and Miyatsuko is unable to stop it. An attendant offers Kaguya a robe that will erase her memories of Earth. Kaguya begs the attendant to grant her a last moment with her parents.

     Celestial Beings  
The attendant assures her that upon returning to the Moon, she will be free of Earth's impurities. Kaguya rebuffs her, saying that Earth is full of wonder and life. The attendant then drapes the robe around Kaguya, and she appears to forget about her life on Earth. The procession ascends to the Moon, leaving Miyatsuko and his wife distraught, as Kaguya looks back one last time with tears in her eyes.

Voice Cast[]


Character

Japanese cast

English dub cast


Princess Kaguya

Aki Asakura

Chloë Grace Moretz


Mirai Uchida (young)

Caitlyn Leone (young)


Sutemaru

Kengo Kora

Darren Criss


The Bamboo Cutter

Takeo Chii

James Caan


The Bamboo Cutter's Wife

Nobuko Miyamoto

Mary Steenburgen


Lady Sagami

Atsuko Takahata

Lucy Liu


Menowarawa

Tomoko Tabata

Hynden Walch


Inbe no Akita

Tatekawa Shinosuke

George Segal


Prince Ishitsukuri

Takaya Kamikawa

James Marsden


Lord Minister of the Right Abe

Hikaru Ijūin

Oliver Platt


Great Counselor Otomo

Ryudo Uzaki

Daniel Dae Kim


The Mikado

Nakamura Shichinosuke II

Dean Cain


Prince Kuramochi

Isao Hashizume

Beau Bridges


Middle Counselor Isonokami

Tamaki Kojo

John Cho

Additional Voices[]
Original: Fubomichi Takazawa, Kawashiro Hidenosuke, Minoru Matsumoto, Akio Nakadai, Ippei Sasaki, Kagetora Miura, Satsuki Okumori, Akari Hijima, Ai Uchida, Juria Takayanagi, Anju Takayanagi, Emi Tanaka, Shôgo Hirama, Ryohito Ozeki, Kenji Yamauchi, Teruyuki Ishii, Tomohiko Kumagai, Hayato Kan'no, Erika Osanai, Mina Hiroe, Michie, Kishi Suzuma, Kyôsuke Tachibana, Tomohiro Ogawa, Takayuki Seki, Kazuki Abe, Masatoshi Suzumoto, Tatsuya Yamamoto, Takeshi Yoshimoto, Kôhei Yada, Mikako Ôshima
English: Newell Alexander, Rosemary Alexander, Emily Bridges, Moosie Drier, Elisa Gabrielli, Hope Levy, Holly Dorff Long, James Nardini, Liam O'Brien, Andre Robinson, Warren Sroka, John C. Storey, Hudson Thames, Dave Zyler
Production[]
Studio Ghibli revealed that Isao Takahata was working on a feature-length film in 2008. Isao Takahata announced at the 62nd Locarno International Film Festival in 2009 that he intended to direct a film based on the Japanese folktale The Tale of the Bamboo Cutter.
The release of The Tale of the Princess Kaguya was finally confirmed by Studio Ghibli and distributor Toho on 13 December 2012. That same month, it was announced that Shin'ichirō Ikebe was to compose the film's score.
On 4 February 2013, it was also announced that Joe Hisaishi would write the film's score, effectively replacing Ikebe as the film's composer. This is the first time that Joe Hisaishi has scored a film that is not directed by Hayao Miyazaki, but by Isao Takahata.
In May 2013, it was announced Kazumi Nikaidō (二階堂和美 Nikaidō Kazumi?) would perform the film's theme song, "Inochi no Kioku" (いのちの記憶?, Memory of Life).

Release[]
The Tale of the Princess Kaguya was initially announced to be released simultaneously with The Wind Rises, another Studio Ghibli film by Hayao Miyazaki in Japan in the summer of 2013, which would have marked the first time that the works of the two directors were released together since the release of the films My Neighbor Totoro and Grave of the Fireflies in 1988. However, in February 2013, distributor Toho announced that the release of The Tale of the Princess Kaguya would be delayed to Fall 2013, citing concerns that the storyboards were not yet complete.
On March 12, 2014, independent distributor GKIDS announced that it had acquired the US rights for the film and that it would release an English dub version produced by Studio Ghibli and Frank Marshall. Chloë Grace Moretz is the voice of the title character in the English dub. It was released in select theatres in North America on October 17, 2014, and was also released on DVD and Blu-ray in Japan on December 3, 2014.
The film was selected to be screened as part of the Directors' Fortnight section of the 2014 Cannes Film Festival. Its North American premiere took place at the 2014 Toronto International Film Festival as part of the festival's "Masters" program.

Reception[]
Box office[]
The film debuted at first place during its opening weekend in Japan, producing ¥284 million (US$2.8 million). By February 2, 2014, the film had produced ¥2,313,602,733 (US$22,613,153) at the Japanese box office. The total production of the film worldwide was $24,149,665.

Critical reception[]
In February 2014, The Tale of the Princess Kaguya placed 4th in both Kinema Junpo's Best Ten and their Reader's Choice Awards.
Reviews timed with the North American release have been overwhelmingly positive. David Ehrlich of The A.V. Club gave the film an A, deeming it "the best animated movie of the year," adding that it is "destined to be remembered as one of the revered Studio Ghibli’s finest achievements." Nicolas Rapold of The New York Times praised the artwork calling it "exquisitely drawn with both watercolor delicacy and a brisk sense of line."
Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes assigned the film a score of 100% with an average rating of 8.3/10 based
on 78 reviews. The critics' consensus says, "Boasting narrative depth, frank honesty, and exquisite visual beauty, The Tale of the Princess Kaguya is a modern animated treasure with timeless appeal."

Accolades[]


Year

Award

Category

Recipients and nominees

Results


2013

64th Blue Ribbon Award

Best Film



nominated


Best Director

Isao Takahata

nominated


68th Mainichi Film Awards

Mainichi Film Award for Best Animation Film



won ✔


2014

8th Asia Pacific Screen Award

Asia Pacific Screen Award for Best Animated Feature Film

Yoshiaki Nishimura

won ✔


37th Japan Academy Prize

Japan Academy Prize for Animation of the Year



nominated


Outstanding Achievement in Music

Joe Hisaishi

nominated


Kinema Junpo Awards

Best Film



nominated


67th Cannes Film Festival

Art Cinema Award (Directors' Fortnight)

Isao Takahata

nominated


Prix SACD (Directors' Fortnight)

Isao Takahata

nominated


[antastic Fest

Audience Award



won ✔


62nd San Sebastián International Film Festival

Audience Award



nominated


39th Toronto International Film Festival

People's Choice Award for Best Drama Feature Film



nominated


47th Sitges Film Festival

Best Animated Feature



nominated


36th Mill Valley Film Festival

Audience Award for Best Animated Film



won ✔


18th Oslo Films from the South Festival

Best Feature



nominated


35th Boston Society of Film Critics Awards

Best Animated Film

Isao Takahata

won ✔


40th Los Angeles Film Critics Association Awards

Los Angeles Film Critics Association Award for Best Animated Film

Isao Takahata

won ✔


Chicago Film Critics Association

Best Animated Feature



nominated


San Francisco Film Critics Circle

Best Animated Feature



nominated


Toronto Film Critics Association

Best Animated Feature



won ✔


18th Online Film Critics Society Awards

Online Film Critics Society Award for Best Animated Film



nominated


Online Film Critics Society Award for Best Foreign Language Film



nominated


2015

42nd Annual Annie Awards

Annie Award for Best Animated Feature



nominated


Annie Award for Directing in an Animated Feature Production

Isao Takahata

nominated


Annie Award for Music in a Feature Production

Joe Hisaishi

nominated


87th Academy Awards

Academy Award for Best Animated Feature

Isao Takahata, Yoshiaki Nishimura

nominated

External links[]
Official Links

 The Tale of the Princess Kaguya on Studio Ghibli
 The Tale of the Princess Kaguya on Walt Disney Japan
 The Tale of the Princess Kaguya on GKIDS
 The Tale of the Princess Kaguya on HBO Max
Information

The Tale of the Princess Kaguya on Rotten Tomatoes
The Tale of The Princess Kaguya on Roger Ebert.com
The Tale of the Princess Kaguya review on The Verge
The Tale of the Princess Kaguya on Wikipedia
The Tale of the Princess Kaguya on IMDB
Navigation[]






 V • T • E    Credits





Credits




Founders

Hayao Miyazaki (Director) •  Isao Takahata (Director) •  Toshio Suzuki (Producer) •   Yasuyoshi Tokuma (Executive Producer)





Notable Staff

Steve Alpert (Overseas Promotion Manager) •  Hideaki Anno (Director) •  Masashi Ando (Animator) •  Makiko Futaki (Animator) •  Hitomi Tateno (Animation Check) •  Toru Hara (Producer) •  Takeshi Inamura (Animator) •  Katsuya Kondō (Animation Director) •  Yoshifumi Kondō (Animation Director) •  Koji Hoshino (President) •  Megumi Kagawa (Animator) •  Yoshinori Kanada (Animator) •  Kitarō Kōsaka (Director) •  Kazuo Komatsubara (Art Director) •  Goro Miyazaki (Director) •  Tomomi Mochizuki (Director) •  Hiroyuki Morita (Director)  •  Yoshiyuki Momose (Animation Director) •  Yoshiaki Nishimura (Producer) •  Atsushi Okui (Director of Photography) •  Kazuo Oga (Background Artist) •  Shinsuke Nonaka (Production Affairs Manager) •  Kaoru Mano (Titles) •  Keiko Niwa (Screenwriter) •  Reiko Okuyama (Animator) •  Seiji Okuda (Director) •  Takeshi Seyama (Director) •  Masako Shinohara (Animator) •  Atsushi Takahashi (Storyboard) •  Yohei Takamatsu (Art Director) •  Atsuko Tanaka (Key Animator) •  Yôji Takeshige (Art Director) Kazuhide Tomonaga (Animator) •  Yasuo Uragami (Sound Director) •  Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Sound Director) •  Akihiko Yamashita (Animator Director) •  Michiyo Yasuda (Color Designer) •  Hiromasa Yonebayashi (Director) •  Nizô Yamamoto (Background Artist) •  Kenichi Yoshida (Animator) •  Noboru Yoshida (Art Director) •  Ushiko (Cat)





Music

Joe Hisaishi •  Michio Mamiya •  Yuji Nomi





Association

Eiko Kadono (Author) •  Tokiko Kato (Singer) •  John Lasseter (Director) •   Rieko Nakagawa (Author) •  Tatsuo Hori (Author) •  Mamoru Hosoda (Director) •  Yoshie Hotta (Author) •  Yōichi Kotabe (Senior Animator) •  Naohisa Inoue (Artist) •  Keisuke Miyazaki (Son) •  Kenji Miyazawa (Author) •  Yasuji Mori (Animation Director) •  Hideo Ogata (Animage Editor) •  Osamu Sagawa (Friend) •  Ryōtarō Shiba (Author) •  Mamiko Suzuki (Toshio Suzuki's Daughter) •  Mamoru Oshii (Director) •  Yasuo Ōtsuka (Director)





Affiliated Companies

Anime Torotoro •  NHK •  Nippon Animation •  Tokyo Movie Shinsha •  Fuji TV •  Oh! Production •  Pony Canyon •  Tokuma Shoten •  Tokuma International •  Shinchosha Publishing •  Dentsu •  Tohokushinsha Film Corporation •  Mitsubishi •  Studio Kajino •  Studio Ponoc •  Streamline Pictures •  Toei Animation •  Toei Company •  TopCraft •  Shochiku •  Toho •  The Walt Disney Company •  Central Park Media •  Sentai Filmworks •  GKIDS •  Madman Entertainment









 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater