Title: Tolmekian airships
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Tolmekian_airships
--------------------------------------------------
Tolmekian airships




A line of Bumblecrows awaiting take-off


Vehicle Details

Type
Transport/Flying Fortress


Crew Size
Unknown (but large)


Affiliation
Torumekia


Appearance(s)
pg 70




The Torumekian Military Transport [1], also known colloquially as Bumblecrows, is a huge, flying fortress/troop transport with two wings.
There is one non-retracting landing gear pylon attached to each wing. On each side of the fuselage at the base are non-retracting landing gear with four large tires in a row, from forward to aft [2].
There are three supplemental wings attached from the fuselage to the landing gear pylon to create an airfoil. Outboard of the landing gear pylon on each wing is a aerodynamic pylon with a short wing. The aft of the Bumblecrow has a diagonal stabilizer fin, attached with two pylons, on each side of the fuselage.
Bumblecrows have four engines: a pair in the back of the fuselage and one each in the non-retracting landing gear pylons[3].
A Bumblecrow has at least two flight decks with a cockpit above and multiple armed turrets with machine guns. Some models have a pair of large doors to allow for freight transport. Bumblecrows are large enough to have horseclaw pens onboard[4].
Bumblecrows are slower than both Torumekian Armored Corvettes and the giant insects Hebikera[5].

References[]

↑ DE1a pg 70 (first appearance)

↑ DE1 pg 464

↑ DE1a pg 93

↑ DE1a pg 148

↑ DE1 pg 460, 466

a See Page Conversions Between Editions to convert Deluxe Edition volume 1 (DE1) to other editions


This box: view • talk • edit Ships and Vehicles


Dorok Air Monitor • Dorok Battleship • Dorok Flying Jar • Dorok Tanks • Forest People Boat • Fuel • Glider • Mehve • Miralupa's Private Ship • Pagase Brig • Pejitei Brig • Pejitei Gunship • Ships and Vehicles • Signal Flags • Tolmekian airships • Tormekian Landing Craft • Torumekian Armored Corvette • Torumekian Armored Corvette Galley • Torumekian Strike Bomber • Valley Barge • Valley Gunship • Worm Handler Brig