Title: Tombo
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Tombo
--------------------------------------------------
Tombo






Japanese name
Kopori (コポリ)


Species
Human


Age
14 years


Gender
Male


First Appearance
Kiki's Delivery Service


Role
Supporting character


Voice actor (Japanese)
Kappei Yamaguchi


Voice actor (Streamline)
Eddie Frierson


Voice actor (Disney)
Matthew Lawrence




Kopoli (コポリ, Kopori), more commonly known as Tombo (トンボ, Tonbo, lit. "dragonfly") which is his nickname, is a major character in Kiki's Delivery Service. He is a 14-year-old aviation fanatic who becomes fascinated by Kiki and her ability to fly. At first, Kiki brushes him off as a "clown", but in time, the two become good friends, and in the Kiki novels, eventual partners.

Contents

1 Kiki's Delivery Service

1.1 Film
1.2 Novel


2 Appearance
3 Behind the Scenes
4 Relationships
5 Quotes
6 Trivia
7 References
8 Navigation


Kiki's Delivery Service[]
Film[]
He is first seen with a group of friends witnessing Kiki and Jiji's arrival in Koriko. Impressed by her flying ability, he intervenes when a police officer tries to detain her for causing a disturbance by feigning having something stolen. Once Kiki has escaped the officer, he makes his presence known and bugs her about taking a look at her broom, but she accuses him of being rude for not introducing himself before talking to her. He teases her for saying something so quaint, to which she flies off in a huff. In the course of this, some of his friends on the street tease him for talking so boldly to a girl, which he brushes off.
Later on, he and his friends drive around in their jalopy and encounter Kiki on the street while she is going home from shopping. He remarks on her not flying, which once again earns her ire as she marches off. Later that day, he is riding his bike when he notices Kiki flying off from Gütiokipänjä Bakery and asks Osono about her.
He returns to the bakery sometime later. Kiki gives him the cold shoulder again, until he gives her an invitation to come to a party at his flying club. Kiki comes to accept the invite, but is delayed in getting back to the bakery in time after helping Madame and her mood is soured by a delivery to Madame's Granddaughter. Tombo waits at the bakery for her but eventually heads off just as she arrives.
Later (off-screen) he returns to the bakery to ask after Kiki and Osono tells him she is sick, to which he is surprised witches can get sick. He mentions he wants to visit later, to which Osono politely refuses. Later, however, Osono assigns Kiki a delivery of baked goods to Tombo, facilitating a meeting.
Tombo and Kiki bond as he shows her his bicycle-propeller setup for a human-powered plane, explaining the party was to celebrate finishing it. He invites her to come with him to see where a large dirigible landed, near the beach. They ride there using his bike, a task made harder by the propeller as he wishes to strengthen his legs. On the way, they nearly collide with a bus, with Kiki using her powers to literally lift the bike into the air to Tombo's surprise. It crashes on the beach as a result, but Tombo is good-natured about it, although he has to run to retrieve the propeller on severely weakened legs.
He and Kiki chat on the beach about flying, with Tombo expressing his admiration for the ability to fly in the air. Kiki admits she thought he was a bit of a clown when they first met, to which he jokingly admits his mother thinks the same thing. Tombo's friends arrive in the jalopy to tell him the pilot of the dirigible has offered to let them all ride in the cockpit during an upcoming test flight. However, unbeknownst to Tombo, Kiki recognizes his friends as some girls who had earlier made her feel insecure, as well as Madame's Granddaughter. She leaves in a huff, to Tombo's confusion. Tombo calls Kiki sometime afterward to tell her about his flight on the dirigible, but she depressed tells him to not call her before hanging up, once again confusing him. Unbeknownst to him, Kiki is dealing with the sudden loss of her witch powers.

    Kiki bravely rescues Tombo from the falling airship "Spirit of Freedom".  
Tombo is present at the launch of the dirigible, but a sudden gust of wind causes it to launch into the air out of control, with Tombo left clinging for dear life to a rope hanging from the bow as it travels over Kiriko. An attempt to swing him into the clock tower fails and leaves him in an increasingly dangerous position just as Kiki arrives on her new broom. Despite losing his grip, Kiki manages to catch him and land him safely to the ground.
Over the film's credits, he is seen flying his human-powered plane alongside Kiki on her broom.

Novel[]
After a long-distance relationship while Tombo was away at school, Kiki eventually marries him when she is 22 years old. Together they have fraternal twins: a daughter named Nini and a son named Toto. The final book focuses on these twins reaching age 13—the same age Kiki was when she first left home. Nini is very lively but initially shows little interest in becoming a witch, which mirrors Kiki's own youthful worries. Toto is curious about magic but, as a boy, traditionally cannot become a witch, so he eventually embarks on his own unique journey to find a similar way of life.

Appearance[]
Tombo is a slender 14-year-old boy. He has short dirty blonde hair and brown eyes. He wears glasses, along with an orange and white striped shirt and blue pants.

Behind the Scenes[]
According to character designer Katsuya Kondō, "We already had a clear concept for Tombo, so drawing him was only a matter of execution. His hairstyle resembles the kind you see in foreign films. It seemed for work for Tombo."[1] Hayao Miyazaki says his character is "not really a man yet, behaving like a fool instead."[2]

    While they are not depicted as a couple in the film adaptation, Tombo and Kiki do eventually become romantically involved in the original novels  
Miyazaki added, "I don't really think Tombo and Kiki have to be romantically involved at all. I do think, however, that they will become good friends."[3] When describing his scene with Kiki on his flying bicycle, "In this world flying isn't so bizarre, so flying bikes don't seem farfetched at all. I overlooked that original premise when I came up with this scene. Because the bike scene was all brushwork, it was very time-consuming. I thought we did a lot of shots, but the scene turned out so short. In any case, we needed a scene where Kiki really breaks out laughing."[4] While they are not depicted as a couple in the film adaptation, Tombo and Kiki do eventually become romantically involved in the original novels.
Miyazaki struggled during the screenplay stage with how to handle the relationship between Kiki and Tombo. He believed that if Kiki became romantically involved with the first boy she met, it would resolve all of the story's problems too easily. Because of this, he tried to keep a certain distance between them and portray Tombo as only one of Kiki's friends. This issue was eventually addressed by placing Ursula between the two characters.[5]
He is voiced by Kappei Yamaguchi on Japanese, later by Eddie Frierson for Streamline and then Matthew Lawrence for the 1998 Disney dub.

Relationships[]
Kiki (friend)
Madame's Granddaughter (friend)
Unnamed boys (friend)
Quotes[]
"You're so lucky, Kiki. I wish I could fly. People like you can just fly away on a broomstick."
—Tombo to Kiki

Trivia[]
Tonbo means "dragonfly" in Japanese.
Tombo attends an aviation club.
He owns a propeller-thrust bicycle.
References[]


↑ "The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service", p.78

↑ "The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service", p.84

↑ "The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service", p.123

↑ "The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service", p.125

↑ Miyazaki, Hayao. *Ghibli Roman Album: Kiki's Delivery Service*. Tokuma Shoten, p.39.


Navigation[]


Kiki's Delivery Service


Characters


Main Cast

Kiki | Jiji


Kiki's Family

Kokiri | Okino


Osono's Family

Osono | Fukuo | Osono's Baby


Citizens of Koriko

Tombo | Ursula | Madame | Barsa | Lily | Maki | Ket | Ket's Mother | Jeff | Clock Tower Caretaker | Madame's Granddaughter | Policeman


Others

Dora | Senior Witch


Miscellaneous


Locations

Okino Residence | Karikiya | Koriko | Gütiokipänjä | Ursula's Log Cabin | Clock Tower (Koriko)


Music

Soundtracks | Rouge no Dengon | Yasashisa Ni Tsutsumareta Nara







 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater