Title: Torumekian Armored Corvette
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Torumekian_Armored_Corvette
--------------------------------------------------
Torumekian Armored Corvette




Armored Corvette in flight (above) and close up (below)


Vehicle Details

Type
Corvette


Crew Size
Unknown


Affiliation
Torumekia


Appearance(s)
pg 43




The Torumekian Armored Corvette [1] is a large, flying fortress with four wings. It is part of Kushana's forces and seems to be a staple of the Torumekian military.

Description and Capabilities[]
The Corvette has two large wings forward and two slightly shorter wings aft.
There is a non-retracting landing gear pylons attached to each wing. The aft of the Corvette has no formal vertical stabilizer but the two rear wings have supplemental wings attached from the fuselage to the landing gear pylons, creating an airfoil.
The cockpit has several stations, including a large steering wheel and room for multiple crew. The rear end of the Corvette has a quick troop deployment space open to the elements. The ship is heavily armed.
The Corvette is faster than Bumblecrows and the giant insect Hebikera[2].

In the Story[]
The Corvette escapes the defeat at the Battle of the Acid Lakes. Kushana continues into the Dorok Principalities with the intent of joining up with the Torumekian Third Army and seize the throne. It encounters two Torumekian Strike Bombers attacking an Nameless Dorok Village and shoots them down.

It crash lands in the midst of Dorok artillary fire at Sapata, where it is destroyed [3].
The Corvette is replaced when Kushana's men seize the unnamed General's personal corvette[4], which has two wings and a V-tail.

References[]

↑ DE1a pg 43 (first appearance)

↑ DE1 pg 466

↑ DE1 pg 356-357

↑ DE1 pg 362


a See Page Conversions Between Editions to convert Deluxe Edition volume 1 (DE1) to other editions



This box: view • talk • edit Ships and Vehicles


Dorok Air Monitor • Dorok Battleship • Dorok Flying Jar • Dorok Tanks • Forest People Boat • Fuel • Glider • Mehve • Miralupa's Private Ship • Pagase Brig • Pejitei Brig • Pejitei Gunship • Ships and Vehicles • Signal Flags • Tolmekian airships • Tormekian Landing Craft • Torumekian Armored Corvette • Torumekian Armored Corvette Galley • Torumekian Strike Bomber • Valley Barge • Valley Gunship • Worm Handler Brig