Title: Torumekian Army
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Torumekian_Army
--------------------------------------------------
Contents

1 Ground forces

1.1 Infantry
1.2 Armament
1.3 Heavy cavalry

1.3.1 Armament


1.4 Artillery
1.5 Torumekian Engineers
1.6 The Torumekian army in the anime adaptation
1.7 (UNDER CONSTRUCTION)




Ground forces[]
The Torumekian army consists of infantry, heavy cavalry, artillery and engineering corps.

Infantry[]
As in most armies, infantry is the core of the Torumekian army. The Torumekian infantry consists of impoverished commoners and peasants who are forced to join the army. As a result, they often engage in looting and plundering of civilians.

Armament[]
Torumekian infantrymen are armed with lever-action rifles. They are equipped with high-strength ceramic helmets and a belt system with a pouch on the right hip. Torumekian infantrymen wear a smock (which is looking similar to Soviet and German uniforms during the WW II) and trousers as their uniform. They probably also wear boots or shoes with windings.

Heavy cavalry[]
Due to the fact that heavy armor made of hardened ceramic can withstand a bullet hit, Torumekia was able to use fully armored horsemen on bird-horses, also dressed in armor, as a tool for breaking through enemy lines. Bullets can only harm heavy cavalrymen if they hit the joints of their armor or the unprotected areas of their bird-horses, which would deprive the cavalryman of his transportation. Ceramic armor is also so light that it barely restricts the wearer. As a result, the bird-horse and its rider, almost invulnerable to enemy bullets, can quickly charge head-on at the enemy and crush them before they can react. This is why the heavy cavalry is so beloved by Kushana, who formed the Second Regiment of her army from cavalrymen and, presumably, most of the Third Regiment.

Armament[]
The Torumekian heavy cavalrymen are armed with long Torumekian Cavalry Sabre with a rounded tip and a protective guard and Torumekian Shield. Cavalrymen with halberds were also seen. Many of the riders also carry bags of explosives, which the cavalry under Kushana's command successfully used several times at Sapata during Kushana's Plan, striking the advancing Dorok cavalry and destroying the Dorok siege guns. On several occasions, the cavalrymen were also seen carrying light submachine guns.

Artillery[]
During the war with the Dorok Principalities, the Torumekian artillery was largely unused due to problems with expanding their ammunition supply lines, and most of the few guns available to the Second and Third Armies were likely abandoned during the retreat. However, the First Regiment of the Third Army managed to save the high-explosive missiles were preserved and later used to bombard the trenches of the Dorok infantry, effectively destroying the front lines. 
Some field guns, presumably caliber 75 or 76mm, were used by Emperor Vai's army for shelling the Master of the Crypt, which had no effect. A little later, they were destroyed by a neutron beam from a turret above the door to the crypt.

Torumekian Engineers[]
Like the engineers of any army, they are responsible for building infrastructure and removing obstacles in the path of an advancing army. During Emperor Vai's attempts to open the pyramid of the Master of the Crypt, a specialized squad of assault engineers armed with light machine guns and smoke bombs was deployed, trying to place some explosives under the door (as a result, half of the squad's members were burned by neutron beams without any results).

The Torumekian army in the anime adaptation[]
The Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind animation showed a slightly different image of the Torumekian army. Due to the fact that the Dorok Principalities did not appear in the adaptation, the mass deployment of Torumekia forces did not occur as it did in the manga. Nevertheless, the following were used to occupy Pejitay and subsequently attack the Valley of the Wind:

The Torumekian infantrymen had similar equipment as Torumekian Stormtroopers. They only appeared in the mass scenes of the uprising in the Valley of the Wind and as the crew of the corvette.
The Torumekian Heavy Cavalry also appeared in the movie, but they never used bird-horses, so in the anime, they act as heavy infantry. They appear after the Stormtroopers, accompanying Kushana to the palace of the ruler of the Valley of the Wind, and then during the scene of the valley's rebellion.
The Torumekian army from the anime adaptation has tanks. Similar in appearance to the early prototypes of the Reimmetall machines from the 1930s, the Torumekian machines belong to the class of heavy tanks, with powerful armor and a huge cannon. Surprisingly, the tank's crew consists of only two people: the driver and the commander. If I remember correctly, a sketch of a similar tank appeared in one of the episodes of "The Age of Seaplanes." Several tanks were lost during the insect attack on Pejitay, and one of the tanks was captured by the people of the Valley of the Wind and later destroyed.
Several Bumblecrow-class transports were also shown, which were later shot down by Asbel's fighter, and a corvette that was captured by master Yupa.
(UNDER CONSTRUCTION)[]