Title: Whisper of the Heart
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Whisper_of_the_Heart
--------------------------------------------------
Whisper of the Heart






Kanji
耳をすませば


Rōmaji
Mimi o Sumaseba


Directed by
Yoshifumi Kondō


Produced by
Toshio SuzukiYasuyoshi Tokuma


Screenplay by
Hayao Miyazaki


Based on
Whisper of the Heart by Aoi Hiiragi


Starring
Yōko HonnaIssei TakahashiTakashi TachibanaShigeru MuroiShigeru TsuyuguchiKeiju Kobayashi


Music by
Yuji Nomi


Cinematography
Atsushi Okui


Art Directed by
Satoshi Kuroda


Editing by
Takeshi Seyama


Studio
Studio Ghibli


Production
Tokuma ShotenNippon Television NetworkHakuhodo


Distributed by
Toho


Release date(s)
July 15, 1995


Running time
111 minutes


Box office
¥1.85 billion


Streaming Platform(s)
HBO Max


Whisper of the Heart (耳をすませば , Mimi wo Sumaseba, lit. "If You Listen Closely") is an animated film directed by Yoshifumi Kondō and produced by Studio Ghibli and was released alongside On Your Mark on July 15, 1995.
The film is based on the 1989 manga of the same name by Aoi Hiiragi and published by Shueisha. The screenplay was written by Hayao Miyazaki. This is the first theatrical Studio Ghibli feature to be directed by someone other than Miyazaki or Takahata, and the only film to be directed by Yoshifumi Kondō, who died in 1998 of a ruptured aneurysm at age of 47. Studio Ghibli had hoped that Kondō would become the successor to Hayao Miyazaki and Isao Takahata. This was also the first collaboration with surrealist painter Naohisa Inoue. 
The poster's advertising slogan is "I have a favorite person." (好きなひとが、できました), coined by Shigesato Itoi.
The film's plot and setting deviate from the original manga, with the film being set in Tama City, Hino City and Musashino in Tokyo. In 2020, a live-action movie starring Nana Seino and Tori Matsuzaka was scheduled to be released on September 18, 2020, but was delayed for an undisclosed reason.[1]
The film is available for streaming on Max, and purchasable on most digital storefronts.

Contents

1 Plot

1.1 Summer's End
1.2 Follow the Cat
1.3 Breeze Blowing on the Hilltop
1.4 I'll Write a Story!
1.5 Forest of Anxiety
1.6 The Crack of Dawn


2 Characters
3 Source Material
4 Behind the Scenes

4.1 Development
4.2 Production


5 Music
6 Release
7 Reception
8 References to other Studio Ghibli films
9 Remarks

9.1 Difference between the film and the manga


10 Sequel
11 Voice Cast

11.1 High School Students
11.2 Additional Voices


12 Credits
13 References
14 External links


Plot[]
Summer's End[]
"Hey, come on, get out the reader's card and the checkout card!""Here, please.""Heyyy, what's this? No one's checked it out till now.""This is a rare book. It's not even in the city library.""Amasawa... Sensei! Do you know who this Amasawa person is?"
—Shizuku and Kosaka discuss the identity of Seiji

    Shizuku and her friend Yuko attempt to translate the song Country Road.  One summer evening in 1994, Shizuku Tsukishima, a junior high school girl living in Tama New Town, a Tokyo suburb, looks through the checkout cards in her library books and notices a pattern: Each book had previously been checked out by someone named "Seiji Amasawa". The next day at school, Shizuku shows her friend Yuko a draft of the song she has been writing for graduation. On the way home, Shizuku realizes she left her book at the school. She rushes back, only to find a boy her age reading it. He hands it back to her and comments on her lyrics, calling them "corny" — which leaves her feeling irritable for the rest of the evening.
Follow the Cat[]
"So, Miss, you're someone who knows about dwarves. Look at the clock face... I wonder if it's going to work?""An Elf!""The glass is shiny, isn't it? Come up here.""Yes... A Princess?""Yes, she is.""Are they in love?""Mmm, but they live in different worlds. Because he's king of the dwarves. Only while the clock is striking twelve can she return from being a sheep to her original world. And so, he too shows himself this way every time that it strikes 12. He keeps waiting for the Princess. I'm sure the craftsman who made this clock had an unfulfilled love.""That's why these two look sad somehow, isn't it."
—Nishi shows Shizuku the magnificent clock in his store

    Shizuku is impressed with Seiji's ambitions in life.  The next morning on the train, Shizuku sees a large cat named Moon is apparently traveling by itself. When it gets off, she follows it to an antique shop, where she sees a statue of a cat in formal clothing. The owner of the shop, Shirō Nishi, tells her the statue's name is Baron Humbert von Gikkingen. He also shows her a recently restored grandfather clock, that tells a tale of the King of the Dwarves and a Fairy Queen. Shizuku is in awe, considering the shop a place where stories begin. Shizuku notices that it is noon and rushes off to take lunch to her father, but forgets her lunchbox in the shop. Just outside the library, the boy she had met the previous day returns the lunchbox. He comments on how much food is in the box and rides away, singing her song, leaving Shizuku in another foul mood.
Breeze Blowing on the Hilltop[]
"In Cremona, Italy, there's a violin-making school. I'd like to go there after junior high.""You won't go to high school?""Everyone in my family is against it in a big way. So I still don't know how things are going to turn out. Only Grandpa is standing by me.""It's amazing... you've already decided on your life's direction. I don't have even a guess about mine. Just getting through each day somehow...""Well, I still haven't decided whether I'm really going or not either, you know. I fight with my parents every day. Even if it was OK, if I don't actually try it I'll never know if I have the talent.."
—Seiji discusses his future with Shizuku

    Shizuku encounters Baron Baron in Nishi's antique shop.  Later, Shizuku goes to visit the antique shop again and finds it closed. The boy shows up and lets her in to see The Baron. Downstairs, she sees his workshop, where he is making a violin. She asks him to play, and he complies on the condition that she will sing along. Midway through the song, Mr. Nishi and two friends arrive and play an accompaniment, and Shizuku learns that the boy is in fact Seiji Amasawa, the same person who had checked out all the library books. On the way home, he tells her his dream is to become a master Luthier. He is fighting with his parents for the chance to go to Cremona, Italy to study with a master. He compliments her on her lyrics and tells her she is talented.
I'll Write a Story![]
"It's called "beryl". There's an inclusion of raw emerald. That's right. You and Seiji both, you're like that stone. Unpolished stones in their natural state. Now, I like even unpolished stones very much, but things like violin making and storywriting are different. You have to find the rough gems inside yourself, take the time, and polish them. It's very time consuming work. That rock has a largest stone, right?""Yes.""Actually, that one, when you polish it, instead turns out to be worthless. The smaller ones further inside are of higher purity. And in a part you can't see from the outside, there might be even better stones. Ah, this won't do. You get old and you start getting preachy."
—Nishi encourages Shizuku

     Shizuku and Seiji are joined by Shirō and his friends.  The next morning at school, Seiji tells Shizuku his parents will allow him to go to Cremona for two months to study with a master to see if he shows potential. The two confess that they have feelings for each other, and Seiji admits that he checked out all those library books hoping it would get her attention. That evening, Shizuku tells Yuko she worries she is not good enough for Seiji, since he seems to know what he wants to do in life. She decides to test her talent, too; she will write a book to see if her skills are good enough. She asks Mr. Nishi's permission to write about The Baron in her story. He agrees, provided he is allowed to be the first to read it.
Forest of Anxiety[]
"Thank you. It was very good.""It's a lie! A lie! Please tell me the truth! The things I wanted to write don't fit together! The second half is ridiculous! I know this myself!""Right. It's rough, unsubtle, and unfinished. Like Seiji's violins.""You definitely showed me your freshly quarried stone. You did your very best, didn't you. You're terrific. There's nothing to get upset over. Please take your time and do a solid job polishing it."
—Nishi after reading Shizuku's manuscript

Shizuku begins to devote all her time to working on her book, and her grades start to slip. Her parents are concerned but decide to trust her. When it is finished, Mr. Nishi reads it and tells her it is very good but not yet perfect. Shizuku decides that attending high school is the best way to learn more about writing.

The Crack of Dawn[]
"Incredible! With the morning mist it's just like the ocean.""This is my secret spot. It's just about time. I wanted to show this to you. Grandpa was telling me about you. I didn't do anything to cheer you on. I was thinking of nothing but myself.""Uh-uh. Because of you, I was able to try my best. I'm glad I pushed myself. Because I understand myself a little better than before. I'm going to study more. And I've decided to go to high school too.""Shizuku, umm, you know... I... It can't very well be right away, but... Will you marry me?"
—Seiji proposes to Shizuku

     Seiji proposes to Shizuku as dawn breaks.  Early the next morning, Shizuku looks out her window and sees Seiji below. He tells her to get on the back of his bike, and they ride to a steep hill, which he says he wants to ride up carrying her. But she hops off to help push, saying she wants to help him, not be a burden to him. They make it to the top and look out at the incredible view, waiting for the sunrise. He tells her he has decided to finish high school, then go back to Cremona to study. Shizuku thanks him for pushing her to do her best and learn more about herself. Seiji asks her if, once he becomes a luthier, she would consent to marry him. She happily tells him she hoped it would be that way and agrees. Seiji then hugs Shizuku and loudly proclaims that he loves her.
During the credits, as the day wore on, people and vehicles pass a street as Seiji on his bicycle takes Shizuku home. Soon, Moon the cat fickledly walks the street. Later on, Yuko, a friend of Shizuku, meets up with Sugimura, implying they are a couple.

Characters[]
Shizuku Tsukishima (月島 雫（つきしま しずく）, Tsukishima Shizuku)
Yōko Honna (Japanese), Brittany Snow (English)
The main character of this film. She's a third-year student at Mukaihara Junior High School. She's 14 years old, has a bright personality and many friends, but is quiet at home.
Unlucky in love. Yuko Harada, her best friend, blames her for liking her crush Sugimura, but is unaware of Sugimura's affections.
She enjoys reading, particularly fantasy literature, or works where fairies and magic appear. She often goes to the school and public library and has read twenty books during one summer vacation. She wrote The Cat Returns.
Seiji Amasawa (天沢 聖司（あまさわ せいじ）, Amazawa Seiji)
Issei Takahashi (Japanese), David Gallagher (Disney)
A third-year student at Mukaihara Junior High School, and the grandson of Shiro Nishi. He's 15 years old. A musically talented boy. He enjoys reading.
He's known Shizuku through the library's book cards. He dreams of becoming a violin craftsman (painter in the original manga) in the future. After graduating from junior high school, he plans to go to Italy to train under a master.
In the film, Seiji is reading a novel called Mysterious Town Beyond the Fog. Miyazaki would later try to adapt that novel but plans fell through and he instead worked on what would be Spirited Away. The original novel is written by Sachiko Kashiwaba.
Moon (ムーン , Mūn)
A cat who was on the same train as Shizuku after the trip to the library. His name is "Moon", which was given by Seiji. He actually has various names, and "Moon" isn't actually his real name.
He appears as "Muta" in The Cat Returns, though his true identity is "Reynaldo Moon".
Seiya Tsukishima (月島 靖也（つきしま せいや）, Tsukishima Seiya)
Takashi Tachibana (Japanese), James Sikking (Disney)
Shizuku's father. 45-years old. He wears black-rimmed glasses and works at a municipal library (prefectural in the original). The library card in the anime version says "prefectural", similar to the original). Although he works as a librarian, his main career is that of a local historian.
Despite performing poorly at school, he fully supports Shizuku's dreams and tells her to work hard and not to blame others if she fails.
Asako Tsukishima (月島 朝子（つきしま あさこ）, Tsukishima Asako)
Shigeru Muroi (Japanese), Jean Smart (Disney),
Shizuku's mother. 43-years old. She attends graduate school (in the original manga, she is a full-time housewife). She's a realist, similar to Shizuku.
Shiho Tsukishima (月島 汐（つきしま しほ）, Tsukishima Shio)
Yorie Yamashita (Japanese), Courtney Thorne-Smith (Disney)
Shizuku's older sister. 18-years old. She's a first year college student (high school student in the original). Since her mother is often not at home, she does housework. She's beautiful, a sports lover and very active. She has a hard time waking up in the morning. She's supportive of Shizuku to an extent. In the second half of the film, she leaves home to live alone.
Baron Humbert von Gikkingen (フンベルト・フォン・ジッキンゲン男爵 , Funberuto fon Jikkingen Danshaku)
Shigeru Tsuyuguchi (Japanese), Cary Elwes (Disney)
A cat statue that Shiro Nishi received from Germany. He's Known as Baron, with the English name of "Baron". He becomes the main character of Shizuku's story. There was a lady's cat statue that was paired with him, but it disappeared during the war.
Shirō Nishi (西 司朗（にし しろう）, Nishi Shirō)
Keiju Kobayashi (Japanese), Harold Gould (Disney)
The owner of the Earth Shop and the grandfather of Seiji. 80 years old. Before the war, he discovered the Baron statue while studying in Germany. He desperately wants to reunite the Baron statue with its lady counterpart. He learned that a lady named "Luisa" owned the lady doll, and longed to meet her. However, the war began shortly thereafter, and both her and the doll went missing. After sharing this story with Shizuku, he thanked Baron for cheering her up in her melancholy.
He plays "Country Road" with Shizuku and his friends. He plays the Viola da Gamba.
Source Material[]
     The original manga by Aoi Hiiragi that caught Miyazaki's eye while on summer vacation in 1989.  Whisper of the Heart was based on the manga Mimi o Sumaseba which was originally created by Aoi Hiiragi. The manga was serialized in Shueisha's shōjo manga magazine Ribon between August and November 1989, and a single tankōbon volume was released in February 1990. The volume was reprinted on July 15, 2005. 
A second manga by the same author titled Mimi o Sumaseba: Shiawase na Jikan was serialized in Shueisha's Ribon Original in 1995. A spiritual sequel to this film adaption, The Cat Returns, was turned back into a manga by Aoi Hiiragi, under the name Baron: Neko no Danshaku.

Behind the Scenes[]
Development[]
     Hayao Miyazaki would often go on month-long retreats either by himself or with his friends to recuperate from a film's production.  In the summer of 1989, Hayao Miyazaki was taking break at his father-in-law's mountain lodge atelier following the release of Kiki's Delivery Service. It was when he visited a supermarket of an agricultural cooperative that he bought a shōjo manga magazine containing the second serialized manga of "Whisper of the Heart". The story caught Miyazaki's eye, which gave him the idea to adapt it into an animated feature film. It is said that Toshio Suzuki, Mamoru Oshii, Hideaki Anno and Miyazaki, who were on vacation together, expanded the story of the manga, and when Miyazaki actually read the whole story, he remarked, " The story is different. Suzuki asked, "what will happen at the end of this story"?
They immediately contacted the original author, Aoi Hiiragi, a longtime fan of Miyazaki. He recalls, "When I heard on the phone from the person in charge that Miyazaki wanted to make this work into a movie, I couldn't believe it, and I thought, "This is a joke, right?".[2]

     Shizuku rushes to find her hidden gem, but soon realizes the dangers of obsession.  Miyazaki stated he wasn't drawn to the idealized encounters of a young couple often found in shōjo love stories, and instead wanted to convey the challenges they would face in supporting one another towards an uncertain future, "This work is a kind of provocation to young people by uncles who leave their youth with regret." "This work is a challenge to sing the wonderfulness of living while giving a certain reality to one idealized encounter." Miyazaki laughs, "Let's do our best like this too."
Miyazaki knew he needed to make changes to the original manga's story in order it to have a sense of urgency; a "time limit". Thus, the protagonists were changed from first to third grade in junior high school, Seiji is no longer a budding painter but has dreams of studying abroad to make violins thus giving him a clearly defined goal, and Shizuki's older sister Shiho is now a college student who leaves who in the latter half of the film.

     Director Yoshifumi Kondō possibly based the old uncle on Hayao Miyazaki.  With these changes, Miyazaki feels the story is given more clarity. Shizuku no longer has time to let her dreams and ambitions languish as she fears Seiji leaving. However, the story also shows the pitfalls of rushing to realize those goals too quickly, as seen in the dream sequence where Shizuku is in a tunnel and finds a mineral, only for it to be revealed as a dead chick. Miyazaki wanted to impart the lesson that Shizuku's obsession with writing led her to neglect her studies and made her parents worry. 
Another theme Miyazaki reveals in the film is the idea of a "diamond in the rough", which can be liked to how the original manga by Aoi has been worked on to become the film Yoshifumi Kondô would eventually direct. Miyazaki defended the film's ending of the young couple deciding to marry, saying that it was his idea. Miyazaki wanted Shizuku and Seiji to "commit to something."

Production[]
     The unfettered imagination of Shizuku as imagined by Naohisa Inoue.  This is the first feature film from Yoshifumi Kondō, who was an animator for Studio Ghibli since the end of the 1980s, and the character design and animation director for Isao Takahata's Grave of the Fireflies (1988) and Only Yesterday (1991). Kondo has long wanted to make a film like "Totoro, but without Totoro" with adolescent children as the protagonists. "I wish I could do it, and in that sense I am really happy to be able to make this anime."[3]
The fantastical backgrounds in the fantasy sequences of the film were created by Japanese surrealist painter Naohisa Inoue and were directed by Hayao Miyazaki. The world of "Iblard" would eventually spun into Iblard Jikan and the Ghibli Museum-exclusive short, Hoshi o Katta Hi. The illustration of the imprisoned musician was created by Miyazaki's son Keisuke Miyazaki, a professional wood carver.
Miyazaki wrote the screenplay and drew up the storyboards used in the film, along with acting as the general producer. The film's art direction was headed by Satoshi Kuroda, who worked closely with Kazuo Oga on Porco Rosso (1992) and other Ghibli projects such as Only Yesterday (1991) and Kiki's Delivery Service.

     Besides being a skilled wood carver, Keisuke Miyazaki also provided illustrations for the film.  During the closing credits, Shizuku and Seiji can be seen at the top of the screen, riding over the bridge on Seiji's bicycle. Later in the credits, Yuko meets Sugimura on the bridge and they walk off together. On the American (Disney) version of the DVD, these closing scenes are fully visible in the English-language version of the film. However, in the Japanese-language version on the same DVD, the top of the screen is cropped during the closing credits, cutting off the heads of the people passing over the bridge.
This film is officially set in Tama City, Tokyo, and the cityscape is modeled around Seiseki-Sakuragaoka Station on the Keio Line in Tama City, Tokyo. For example, the platform of Sugimiya Station has a signboard of "Tama Clinic", and the trash can of the school has "Tama City" written on it.[4]
The school that Shizuku attends in the play is modeled after the Koganei Daiichi Junior High School. In the original manga, the school is based on "Midoricho Machihara Junior High School", which itself is based in Koganei City. In addition, Studio Ghibli's production studio happens to be located in Koganei City (the area is Kajino-cho). However, since the original manga was made in 1989 while the film was in production in 1993 - 1994, it is a complete coincidence that "Midoricho" actually exists in Koganei City, where Studio Ghibli's production studio is located.

Music[]
     An image album was released to accompany the film. It featured recomposed music by Yuji Nomi and the cast delivering new dialogue.  Whisper of the Heart (Image Album) (耳をすませば サウンドトラック , Mimi wo Sumaseba Imeeji Arubamu) was a 10-track album released by Tokuma Japan Communications on February 25, 1995.
Whisper of the Heart (Original Soundtrack) (耳をすませば サウンドトラック , Mimi wo Sumaseba Saundotorakku) was released by Tokuma Japan Communications on July 10, 1995. The film's score was composed and arranged by Yuji Nomi, the protégé of acclaimed composer Ryuichi Sakamoto.
In the film, Shizuku creates translations of the song "Take Me Home, Country Roads" (originally co-written and recorded by John Denver) into Japanese for her school's chorus club. She also wrote her own humorous Japanese version of the song, called "Concrete Road", about her hometown in western Tokyo. The songs were actually translated by producer Toshio Suzuki's daughter, Mamiko Suzuki, with Miyazaki writing supplemental lyrics. These songs play a role at various points in the story. A recording of "Country Roads", performed by Olivia Newton-John, plays during the film's opening sequence, as does Yoko Honna's version at the end.

Release[]


Country

Release Date

Format

Publisher


Japan 
July 15, 1995
Theater
Toho


Japan 
December 1995
VHS
Tokuma


Japan 
December 1998
VHS Re-Release
Tokuma


USA 
March 7, 2006
Theater
The Walt Disney Company


USA 
2008
DVD
The Walt Disney Company


The film was paired with Chage and Aska's On Your Mark during its theatrical run in 1995. This was the first Japanese film to use the Digital Dolby Digital sound format. An English dub of this film was released by Buena Vista Home Entertainment on March 7, 2006. Turner Classic Movies televised both the dubbed and subbed versions on January 18, 2006, as part of their month-long celebration of Miyazaki (in honor of his birthday, January 5). The English title, Whisper of the Heart, was created by Studio Ghibli and used on several officially licensed "character goods" released around the same time as the film was released in theaters in Japan.

Reception[]
Whisper of the Heart was the highest-grossing Japanese film on the domestic market in 1995, earning ¥1.85 billion in distribution income. Whisper of the Heart received very positive reviews from film critics. It has a 91% approval rating on review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, based on 11 reviews. Time Out London included Whisper of the Heart in their Top 50 Animated Film list. It was also included in Film4's Top 25 Animated Film list. On Anime News Network, Michael Toole gave it an overall grade of A-, calling it "beautiful and evocative; a fine tale of adolescent yearning and aspiration."

References to other Studio Ghibli films[]
The clock in the store there is an inscription of Porco Rosso, film under the same name released by Studio Ghibli in 1992.
In the school library where Shizuku takes the book, among other books, there is a volume with the inscription Totoro. It is on the shelf below, 14th from the left, after four blue books. The film My Neighbor Totoro was released by Studio Ghibli in 1988.
The figure of a witch on a broom in the Shizuku room when she begins to write a novel is the main character of the film Kiki's Delivery Service, which Studio Ghibli released in 1989.
Remarks[]
Difference between the film and the manga[]
In the original, Shizuku is a freshman in junior high school, but in the movie she is the third year of junior high school.
Seiji is a painter in the original and a violinist in the movie.
In the scene where Shizuku first encounters Seiji, he makes fun of the contents of the book Shizuku is reading in the manga but in the movie, he makes fun of the lyrics of "Concrete Road" (a parody of "Country Road").
In the original manga, Koji, the brother of Seiji, makes an appearance.
Shio is a high school student in the original, but a college student in the movie.
Shio has a relaxed personality in the original, but has a strong personality in the movie.
The mother of the Tsukishima sisters is a working college student, and a realist in the movie, but in the original, she is a full-time housewife and has a strong personality (similar to Shio in the movie).
In the original, the Tsukishima family lives in a single house, but in the movie, they live in an apartment complex.
The original, Moon is a black cat and has an older sister named Luna. There was concern that audience would confuse Moon with Jiji from Kiki's Delivery Service, and also Miyazaki's principle that "I will not do the same thing twice". Kondo insisted on using a black cat but Miyazaki said, "I don't think so," The two directors confronted each other, with Kondo saying it didn't matter and insisted he wanted Moon to be black cat. A vote was raised and Ghibli staff decided against the black cat idea.
In the original, the setting was in a small town, but the movie is set in the city.
Sequel[]
Over the course of the film, Shizuku is working on a fantasy novel that revolves around a cat figurine, named The Baron, that she sees in Mr. Nishi's antique store. The short fantasy scenes that depict what she is writing in her novel were so popular with fans that Studio Ghibli released a film based on the Baron in 2002 The Cat Returns.

Voice Cast[]


Character

Original

English


Shizuku Tsukishima

Youko Honna

Brittany Snow


Seiji Amasawa

Issei Takahashi

David Gallagher


Seiya Tsukishima

Takashi Tachibana

James Sikking


Asako Tsukishima

Shigeru Muroi

Jean Smart


Humbert von Gikkingen

Shigeru Tsuyuguchi

Cary Elwes


Shirō Nishi

Keiju Kobayashi

Harold Gould


Shiho Tsukishima

Yorie Yamashita

Courtney Thorne-Smith


Yuko Harada

Maiko Kayama

Ashley Tisdale


Sugimura

Yoshimi Nakajima

Martin Spanjers


Kosaka

Minami Takayama

Vicki Davis


Kinuyo

Mayumi Iizuka

Mika Boorem


Nao

Mai Chiba

Abigail Mavity


Minami

Naohisa Inoue

Corey Burton


Kita

Toshio Suzuki

Walker Edmiston

High School Students[]
Jillian Bowen
A.J. Buckley
Erin Chambers
Jacy DeFilippo
Courtnee Draper
Scott McAfee
Aaron Nelms
Ryan O'Donohue
Bradley Pierce
Deanna Russo
Additional Voices[]
Original: Miku Kuga, Tadamasa Murano, Kosuke Yoshida, Takuya Shiraishi, Nagato Suganuma, Shohei Ayukawa, Satoru Takahashi, Daisuke Fujita, Akiko Sakaguchi, Momoko Naito, Masako Tanaka, Yuki Muraguchi, Yuriko Waga, Nao Shiobara, Takaki Yokomae, Keiko Hirata, Hiromi Ito, Yutaka Narui, Hiromi Yasuda, Tatsuya Okada, Yoshihiro Imai, Haruhiko Nakamura, Suguru Egawa (Baseball Analyst), Mitsuaki Ogawa (Baseball Announcer), Shirô Kishibe
English: Jeff Bennett, Doug Burch, Melissa Disney, Judi Durand, Jeffrey Todd Fischer, Charles Kimbrough, Daamen Krall, Jeremy Maxwell, Paige Pollack, Noreen Reardon, Grace Rolek, Rebecca Wink
Credits[]


Credit

Staff


Director
Yoshifumi Kondō


Screenplay, Storyboard
Hayao Miyazaki


Chief Executive Producer
Yasuyoshi Tokuma


Executive Producer
Seiichiro Ujiie, Takashi Tōkairin


Producer
Producer


Animation Director
Kitaro Kosaka


Character Design
Kitaro Kosaka


Key Animation
Atsuko Otani, Atsuko Tanaka (Telecom Animation Film), Hideaki Yoshio, Hiroko Minowa, Hiroyuki Aoyama (Telecom Animation Film), Hiroyuki Inoue, Hisao Yokobori (Telecom Animation Film), Kenichi Konishi, Kenichi Yamada, Kenichi Yoshida, Kuniyuki Ishii, Makiko Futaki, Masaaki Endou, Masako Shinohara, Masaru Matsuse, Masashi Ando, Masaya Saito, Megumi Kagawa, Noriko Moritomo, Shinji Otsuka, Shinsaku Sasaki, Takehiro Noda, Takeshi Inamura, Teiichi Takiguchi (Telecom Animation Film), Toshio Kawaguchi, Tsutomu Awada, Yoshiyuki Momose, Yuichiro Yano (Telecom Animation Film)


Background Artists
Akira Yamakawa, Katsu Hisamura, Kazuo Oga, Kiyomi Oota, Kyōko Naganawa, Naohisa Inoue (fantasy sequence), Naomi Kasugai, Naoya Tanaka, Nizo Yamamoto, Ryoko Ina, Sayaka Hirahara, Seiki Tamura, Yoshikazu Fukutome, Yoji Takeshige


Fantasy Sequence Director
Hayao Miyazaki


Color Design
Michiyo Yasuda


Art Director
Satoshi Kuroda


Production Committee
Akio Ichimura (Studio Ghibli), Akira Kaneko (Tokuma Shoten), Chinami Yanagisawa (Studio Ghibli), Fujio Nishida (Hakuhodo), Hatsuhiko Sawada (Hakuhodo), Hidehiko Takei (NTV), Hiroshi Morie (Hakuhodo), Hiroshi Takahashi (NTV), Hisaomi Saito (Hakuhodo), Junko Ito (Tokuma Shoten), Koichi Aoto (Tokuma Shoten), Masahiko Nishizawa (Tokuma Shoten), Masayoshi Suzuki (Tokuma Shoten), Naoya Fujimaki (Hakuhodo), Noriko Tachie (NTV), Ryoko Tsutsui (Tokuma Shoten), Shigeru Kobayashi (Studio Ghibli), Shigeru Ohno (Hakuhodo), Shinsuke Nonaka (Studio Ghibli), Shokichi Arai (Studio Ghibli), Suzuko Fujimoto (NTV), Taketaka Hosaka (NTV), Tomoki Horaguchi (Studio Ghibli), Yasuharu Urushido (NTV)


Assistant Director
Hiroyuki Ito, Masahiko Otsuka,


Music
Yuji Nomi


Editor
Takeshi Seyama

References[]

↑ "Whisper of the Heart" live-action movie, Fashion Press

↑ "Happiness if you listen" Shueisha, Ribon Mascot Comics, 1996, p. 115.

↑ "Whisper of the Heart" Movie Pamphlet, "A dialogue between Yoshifumi Kondô and Aoi Hiiragi".

↑ Studio Ghibli Storyboard Complete Works "Whisper of the Heart / On Your Mark", Tokuma Shoten, 2001, page 5.


External links[]
Official Sites

 Whisper of the Heart on Studio Ghibli
 Whisper of the Heart on Walt Disney Japan
 Whisper of the Heart on GKIDS
 Whisper of the Heart on HBO Max
Information

 Whisper of the Heart on Anime News Network
 Whisper of the Heart at the Internet Movie Database  
Encyclopedia

Whisper of the Heart on Wikipedia






 V • T • E    Credits





Credits




Founders

Hayao Miyazaki (Director) •  Isao Takahata (Director) •  Toshio Suzuki (Producer) •   Yasuyoshi Tokuma (Executive Producer)





Notable Staff

Steve Alpert (Overseas Promotion Manager) •  Hideaki Anno (Director) •  Masashi Ando (Animator) •  Makiko Futaki (Animator) •  Hitomi Tateno (Animation Check) •  Toru Hara (Producer) •  Takeshi Inamura (Animator) •  Katsuya Kondō (Animation Director) •  Yoshifumi Kondō (Animation Director) •  Koji Hoshino (President) •  Megumi Kagawa (Animator) •  Yoshinori Kanada (Animator) •  Kitarō Kōsaka (Director) •  Kazuo Komatsubara (Art Director) •  Goro Miyazaki (Director) •  Tomomi Mochizuki (Director) •  Hiroyuki Morita (Director)  •  Yoshiyuki Momose (Animation Director) •  Yoshiaki Nishimura (Producer) •  Atsushi Okui (Director of Photography) •  Kazuo Oga (Background Artist) •  Shinsuke Nonaka (Production Affairs Manager) •  Kaoru Mano (Titles) •  Keiko Niwa (Screenwriter) •  Reiko Okuyama (Animator) •  Seiji Okuda (Director) •  Takeshi Seyama (Director) •  Masako Shinohara (Animator) •  Atsushi Takahashi (Storyboard) •  Yohei Takamatsu (Art Director) •  Atsuko Tanaka (Key Animator) •  Yôji Takeshige (Art Director) Kazuhide Tomonaga (Animator) •  Yasuo Uragami (Sound Director) •  Kazuhiro Wakabayashi (Sound Director) •  Akihiko Yamashita (Animator Director) •  Michiyo Yasuda (Color Designer) •  Hiromasa Yonebayashi (Director) •  Nizô Yamamoto (Background Artist) •  Kenichi Yoshida (Animator) •  Noboru Yoshida (Art Director) •  Ushiko (Cat)





Music

Joe Hisaishi •  Michio Mamiya •  Yuji Nomi





Association

Eiko Kadono (Author) •  Tokiko Kato (Singer) •  John Lasseter (Director) •   Rieko Nakagawa (Author) •  Tatsuo Hori (Author) •  Mamoru Hosoda (Director) •  Yoshie Hotta (Author) •  Yōichi Kotabe (Senior Animator) •  Naohisa Inoue (Artist) •  Keisuke Miyazaki (Son) •  Kenji Miyazawa (Author) •  Yasuji Mori (Animation Director) •  Hideo Ogata (Animage Editor) •  Osamu Sagawa (Friend) •  Ryōtarō Shiba (Author) •  Mamiko Suzuki (Toshio Suzuki's Daughter) •  Mamoru Oshii (Director) •  Yasuo Ōtsuka (Director)





Affiliated Companies

Anime Torotoro •  NHK •  Nippon Animation •  Tokyo Movie Shinsha •  Fuji TV •  Oh! Production •  Pony Canyon •  Tokuma Shoten •  Tokuma International •  Shinchosha Publishing •  Dentsu •  Tohokushinsha Film Corporation •  Mitsubishi •  Studio Kajino •  Studio Ponoc •  Streamline Pictures •  Toei Animation •  Toei Company •  TopCraft •  Shochiku •  Toho •  The Walt Disney Company •  Central Park Media •  Sentai Filmworks •  GKIDS •  Madman Entertainment









 V • T • E    Studio Ghibli





Animated features




Feature films

Castle in the Sky (1986) •  Grave of the Fireflies (1988) •  My Neighbor Totoro (1988) •  Kiki's Delivery Service (1989) •  Only Yesterday (1991) •  Porco Rosso (1992) •  Ocean Waves (1993) •  Pom Poko (1994) •  Whisper of the Heart (1995) •  Princess Mononoke (1997) •  My Neighbors the Yamadas (1999) •  Spirited Away (2001) •  The Cat Returns (2002) •  Howl's Moving Castle (2004) •  Tales from Earthsea (2006) •  Ponyo (2008) •  The Secret World of Arrietty (2010) •  From Up on Poppy Hill (2011) •  The Wind Rises (2013) •  The Tale of the Princess Kaguya (2013) •  When Marnie Was There (2014) •  Earwig and the Witch (2020) •  The Boy and the Heron (2023)





Short films

Nandarō •  On Your Mark •  Ghiblies •  Film Guru Guru •  Ghiblies Episode 2 •  Imaginary Flying Machines •  The Invention of Imaginary Machines of Destruction • The Whale Hunt •  Koro's Big Day Out •  Mei and the Kittenbus •  Looking for a Home •  The Day I Bought a Star •  The Night of Taneyamagahara •  Water Spider Monmon •  Iblard Jikan •  A Sumo Wrestler's Tail •  Mr. Dough and the Egg Princess •  Treasure Hunting •  Giant God Warrior Appears in Tokyo •  Boro the Caterpillar






Documentaries

The Story of Yanagawa's Canals (1987) •  Miyazaki and Kurosawa Fireside Chat (1993) •  Ghibli Was Born This Way: A Birth Story Spelled Out With Reproduced Images (1998) •  World Journey of My Memory / Journey of the Heart (1998) •  How Princess Mononoke Was Born (2001) •  Lasseter-San, Arigato! (2003) •  Hayao Miyazaki Produces a CD (2004) •  Yasuo Otsuka's Joy of Motion (2004) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Ghibli Museum (2005) •  Ghibli: The Miyazaki Temple (2005) •  The Work of Toshio Suzuki (2006) •  Scenery of Ghibli (2006) •  A Ghibli Artisan – Kazuo Oga Exhibition – The Man Who Painted Totoro's Forest (2007) •  How Ponyo Was Born (2009) •  Poppy Hill - 300 Days of War Between Father and Son (2011) •  Ghibli's Bookshelf (2011) •  The Kingdom of Dreams and Madness (2013) •  Until The End of The Creation of When Marnie Was There (2015) •  Never-Ending Man: Hayao Miyazaki (2016) •  NHK Image File: I Want To Meet This Person - Isao Takahata, Animation Film Director (2018) •  10 Years with Hayao Miyazaki (2019) •  Hayao Miyazaki and the Heron (2023)





Television series

The Blue Seed (1992) •  Ronja, the Robber's Daughter (2014)





Concerts

Joe Hisaishi in Budokan •  Joe Hisaishi Symphonic Concert: The Music of Studio Ghibli





Video games

Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (Video Game) •  Jade Cocoon: Story of the Tamamayu •  Jade Cocoon 2 •  Magic Pengel: The Quest for Color •  Ni no Kuni (Series) •  Ni no Kuni: Dominion of the Dark Djinn •  Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch •  Ni no Kuni II: Revenant Kingdom





Printed works

Animage •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (manga) •  Starting Point: 1979-1996 •  Turning Point: 1997-2008 •  Kaze no Kaerubasho •  People of the Desert •  The Age of the Flying Boat •  Hayao Miyazaki's Daydream Data Notes •  To My Sister •  The Journey of Shuna •  Studio Ghibli's Trajectory as Seen on Animage (1984-2011) •  The Art of My Neighbor Totoro •  The Art of Castle in the Sky •  The Art of Kiki's Delivery Service •  The Art of Porco Rosso •  Princess Mononoke: The First Story •  The Place Where Totoro Was Born •  The Bountiful Food of Studio Ghibli •  Children's Picture Book Ghibli's Dining Table Earwig and the Witch





Co-Productions

Flying City Plan •  Shiki-Jitsu (Studio Kajino) •  Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence •  Nasu: Summer in Andalusia •  Nasu: A Migratory Bird with Suitcase •  Portable Airport •  Red Crow and the Ghost Ship •  Space Station No. 9 •  The Red Turtle





Pre-Ghibli works

Hustle Punch (1965) •  Horus, Prince of the Sun (1968) •  Animal Treasure Island (1971) •  Lupin the Third Part I (1971) •  Panda! Go, Panda! (1972) •  Heidi, Girl of the Alps (1974) •  Dog of Flanders (1975) •  Future Boy Conan (1978) •  Anne of Green Gables (1979) •  Lupin III: The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) •  Chie the Brat (1981) •  3000 Leagues in Search of Mother (1981) •  Gauche the Cellist (1982) •  Sherlock Hound (1984) •  Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984)





Ghibli-related labels

Animage •  Animage Home Video •  Ghibli ga Ippai Collection •  Ghibli Museum •  Ghibli Museum Library •  Ghibli Park •  Totoro no Furusato Foundation •  Totoro no Mori





Unproduced projects

Border 1939





Related productions

Like the Clouds, Like the Wind •  Mary and the Witch's Flower •  Modest Heroes •  Natsuzora •  World Masterpiece Theater