Title: Yoshio Onodera
URL: https://ghibli.fandom.com//wiki/Yoshio_Onodera
--------------------------------------------------
Yoshio Onodera






Japanese name
小野寺 善雄 (Onodera Yoshio)


Species
Human


Gender
Male


First Appearance
From Up on Poppy Hill


Role
Supporting character


Voice actor (Japanese)
Takashi Naito


Voice actor (GKIDS)
Bruce Dern




Yoshio Onodera (小野寺 善雄, Onodera Yoshio) is a supporting character of From Up on Poppy Hill film. He is a sea captain and an old friend of Umi's father and Shun's biological father.

Contents

1 Appearance
2 Role in the story
3 Personality
4 Voice Actor
5 Etymology
6 Gallery


Appearance[]
Yoshio wears a captain uniform with sailor captain hat. Without the hat, he has brown hair.

Role in the story[]
Despite his minor role, Yoshio plays a crucial part regarding to Umi and Shun's relationship together. When the two students went to visit him after Shun's adoptive father and Umi's mother meet up to discuss about the possibility of the two being (biologically) related to each other. Yoshio explains what really happened to Shun's biological parents and how he came to be adopted by the Kazama-family -- long story short, Yoshio confirms that Umi and Shun aren't biologically related to each other in any way, so they're welcome to pursue a romantic relationship if they still want to.

Personality[]
Little is known about Yoshio's personality but as shown during his role in the story, he's an honest man who reveals the truth about Umi's father and Shun's biological father, which ultimately allows them to pursue a romantic relationship (if they choose to). In addition, he is a respectful man who wishes to honor his friends as a ship captain.

Voice Actor[]
Yoshio Onodera was portrayed by Takashi Naito who appears in Spirited Away as Chihiro's father. He was voiced by Bruce Dern in 2012 English dub by GKIDS.

Etymology[]
The name Yoshio means "good/goodness, right, virtue" (善) (yoshi) and "hero, manly" (雄) (o).
Yoshio's surname Onodera means "small" (小) (o), "field, wilderness" (野) (no) and "temple" (寺) (tera/dera).
Gallery[]
Left to right: Yoshio,Hiroshi Tachibanaand Yūichirō Sawamura.
This article is a stub. You can help Ghibli Wiki by  expanding it.